title: 'Yes! Apple TV!'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>I''m not the type of purchase things impulsively. I''ll stew over something for months: reading reviews, checking prices, and thinking about whether the old budget can take it.</p><p>Last week I finally caved in and bought an Apple TV. I got it off Craigslist, new in the box, for $60 less than buying it from the store.</p><p>I wish I''d bought one ages ago. &nbsp;My wife and kids can easily use the interface to watch TV shows, photos, podcasts and movies. We’ve also found purchasing and renting movies quite convenient: click “rent” and the movie is ready to watch (almost instantly).</p><p>Blockbuster recently joined the digital media game with <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/2008/11/blockbuster-web-movie-rental-box">its own box</a>. &nbsp;I can see Blockbuster having a slight advantage in that they have existing retail stores from which to promote their new box. However, I think a lot of this is about how “cross-platform” a given solution is.</p><p>When I buy a movie on iTunes, it becomes available to my wife’s iPod, my iPhone, our home iMac, my work Macbook and our Apple TV. That makes it a convenient, and attractive, choice for homes that already own one more of those Apple products.</p><p>This kind of cross-platform functionality just isn’t there for the competition: Vudu, Roku, Xbox 360, TiVo, or Blockbuster.&nbsp; </p>'
author: admin
dsq_thread_id: '527158554'
id: 6ced86b3-7004-4298-a408-6c806499ca7a
