title: 'Think clearly about print advertising'
author: admin
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p><em>Note: I originally posted this on <a href="http://strongcaster.com">strongcaster.com</a>, but thought I would post it here as well, with a few modifications</em></p>
      <p>Derek Sivers has <a href="http://sivers.org/1pct">a great story on his blog</a> about a musician who booked an ad in a magazine in the hopes of converting 1% of the magazine’s readership into sales.  In this case, 1% would have translated into 10,000 CDs sold.  <strong>The result?  4 CDs sold.</strong></p>
      <p>He ends with this line: <strong>“He forgot there was a number lower than one percent.”</strong></p>
      <p>This story reminded me of when I owned my own retail shop.  We would place a full-page ad in the newspaper (with a coupon), hoping sales would just poor in.  The newspaper’s circulation was 20,000, so a 1% conversion would have meant 200 new customers.  <strong>But sure enough, only a handful of new people would walk through the door.</strong></p>
      <p><strong>Circulation means nothing without engagement. </strong> This is one of the reasons the newspaper industry is in such trouble; for years businesses would throw money at advertising and hope it would make a difference.  The problem is that, often, it didn’t.</p>
      <p>This isn’t to say that <strong>print doesn’t have a place</strong>; there are many factors to consider, including the size of one’s target market, ad design, etc…  <strong>The difference is that online you can measure engagement: </strong></p>
      <ul>
      <li>with a well built web site you can track visitors, and what they're reading when they are on your site</li>
      <li>a social marketing campaign can be measured for success based on blog posts on other sites, comments, tweets, etc.</li>
      <li>an email newsletter can provide you with stats based on interests and click-through.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>My recommendation for businesses with yearly marketing budgets of $500-$5,000 is to spend the majority of that money building engagement <strong>online</strong>.  When you compare it with print advertising, you will get a much better return on investment. </p>
      
id: 95f45ae0-c2cf-415e-8d2d-2571a611b79a
