title: 'The iPad is a family device'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>As a Canadian, I was lucky enough to get an iPad early (at the beginning of May), <a href="http://sarahjackson.ca">thanks to my sister, who won it in a contest</a> (thanks, Sarah!).&nbsp; While some have dubbed the iPad "just another solo-user device," I disagree.&nbsp; I think it''s a family device and is more social than an iPod touch.</p><h3>The screen</h3><p>The iPad screen is perfect for sharing. I''m not the only one that thinks so: many have noticed that, right out of the box, the form factor of this device makes it great for 2 adults, or 1 adult and multiple kids, to share.&nbsp; The touch interface is much more responsive than a regular iPod touch screen. Games, educational apps, and videos all feel "more at home" on a screen this size.</p><p><br></p><h3>Kids get it</h3><p>How long did it take to teach the kids how to use the iPad?&nbsp; Zero seconds.&nbsp; They picked it up and immediately knew what to do with it: swiping across the screen, clicking on icons, and using different apps.&nbsp; When they''re on the computer, they often need my help to access different websites or programs not on the iPad.&nbsp; They can find the apps and use them themselves.</p><h3>How you can use it as a family</h3><p>Here are some of the ways we have used the iPad as a family; we have:</p><ul><li>Read the Toy Story interactive storybook at bedtime</li><li>My wife and I have played, using our iPods as the "letter racks"</li><li>Snuggled on the couch with one of our kids to watch a movie</li><li>I use Maps with my daughter to explore our neighborhood using Street View</li><li>We''re looking forward to using it with a vehicle mounting kit when we travel this summer.</li></ul><h3>My wife doesn''t touch our computer anymore</h3><p>My wife hates technology.&nbsp; She never liked our PC.&nbsp; She perked up a bit when I brought home our iMac a few years ago.&nbsp; <strong>But she loves the iPad</strong>:</p><blockquote><p>When I''m home with the kids, I don''t want to have to boot up the computer.&nbsp; The iPad is fast: I open the case, and I can access my email, Facebook, and the web right away.&nbsp; I don''t have to type in a web address; I just tap the icon with my finger and I''m there.</p></blockquote><p>Previously she hesitated to use iCal and Contacts on the Mac because she''d have to boot up the computer (or "wake it up") to use them.&nbsp; But the iPad feels more accessible; it''s on the kitchen counter, and she can pick it up and use it immediately if she needs to look up something. </p>'
  -
    type: newsletter
author: Justin
twipub_short_url_main: 'http://bit.ly/cbvkh9'
twipub_tweeted: '1'
dsq_thread_id: '527158557'
id: 7fdce8e9-8323-486b-8b7e-ae29fc5d3b80
