title: 'You can''t change the customer''s behavior'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Growing up in a small town, I always wanted to own a snowboard and skateboard shop.<br></p><p>After I graduated from university with my business degree, I decided to make my dream a reality.</p><p>I partnered up with a childhood friend and my brother. Together, we opened The Real Deal.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/real-deal-skateboard-shop.png
    size: md
    brutalized: true
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>We sold skateboard decks, snowboards, clothing, and accessories.</p><p>We cared about our customers. Our store was well designed. We stocked the best brands. Plus, we had a point of view: "It''s better to shop local."<br></p><p>But we soon discovered a problem. Our customer didn''t really care about shopping local.</p><p>They already had a solution that was working for them: they drove to the big city (about 35 minutes away). They would go on a Saturday and visit multiple shops. These stores had a bigger selection than we could ever have. Additionally, in the early 2000s, internet shopping was becoming a thing. Kids were discovering they could get the same product, for less, online.</p><p><strong>Once we discovered this, we tried to change their behavior.</strong>&nbsp;</p><p>We launched "shop local" campaigns, and tried to offer competitive pricing. We also sponsored local athletes, put on shows, and even launched our own magazine.</p><p>But ultimately, none of that mattered. Customers were already in motion. Changing their behavior would have been like trying to reverse the flow of a river.</p><h2>Humans do what''s easiest</h2><p>There''s a popular design meme that shows a paved pathway (what the designer envisioned), and the reality (a shortcut path next to it, worn into the grass).</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/internet-path-meme.png
    size: md
    brutalized: true
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Many entrepreneurs start their business because they have a vision for "the way things should be."</p><p>That''s admirable! It''s what''s driving Elon Musk, and Tesla, to get more electric cars on the road. But customers don''t always care about your vision. Sometimes, they just want a fast, high-tech sports car, because their friends are all driving them.</p><blockquote><p>"Like nearly everyone who loves technology, I’ve wanted to buy a Tesla for years." – Nathan Barry</p></blockquote><p>Our tendency is to align our behavior to what our peers are doing, as Seth Godin puts it here:</p><blockquote><p>"People like us do things like this."</p></blockquote><p>All of this is to say: it''s incredibly difficult to change human behavior. We''re creatures of habit. We do what''s easiest, what we''ve always done, or what others are doing.</p><p>Customers don''t care about your ideology. To succeed, your beliefs about "the way things should be" need to line up with what your customers desire.</p><p>Cheers,<br>Justin Jackson<br><a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p>'
  -
    type: newsletter
seo:
  description: 'Growing up in a small town, I always wanted to run my own snowboard and skateboard shop. But'
  image: /assets/real-deal-1546813881.jpg
author: Justin
dsq_thread_id: '527158543'
_zilla_featured_post: 'off'
_zilla_gallery_transition: fade
_zilla_gallery_timeout: '0'
_zilla_image_ids: 'false'
_zilla_quote_image_darken: 'off'
_zilla_seo_robots_index: index
_zilla_seo_robots_follow: follow
_wpas_skip_3416642: '1'
id: 7fc179ac-808c-42fb-825e-fbaf1e1160ca
