title: 'Business lesson: less research, launch small'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p><em><br></em></p><p><em>Note: this is the second post in my series on business lessons I learned while running a small retail business shortly after graduating from university.&nbsp; <a href="http://justinjackson.ca/business-lesson-go-where-the-people-are/">Click here to go to the first post</a>.</em><br></p><h2>Mistake: too much planning</h2><p>When I did my research, everything looked "fine" on paper. &nbsp;My area had more than enough target market; they had the money and the demand for the goods. &nbsp;I interviewed potential customers, all excited about a local skateboard and snowboard shop. &nbsp;I built my cash flow based on other shops in similar markets.</p><p>But none of that planning worked because all the facts,  business theory, and analysis went out the window when I started selling real products.</p><h2>What I should have done: smaller experiments</h2><p>Instead of planning for over a year and launching a big store, I  should have planned for a month and launched multiple test runs. &nbsp;I  could have tried selling skateboards out of my truck at the skatepark.  &nbsp;I could have rented a temporary space in the mall over Christmas. &nbsp;I  could have tried home delivery.</p><p><strong>This could have been accomplished with less time, less money, and less planning.</strong>&nbsp;I should have moved from the theoretical to selling the product. This would have given me the data I couldn''t accomplish doing other types of research: will this work? &nbsp;Is it worth doing?</p><p><strong>Until you produce and sell something real, you can''t forecast the response. </strong>Start small: build it and sell it as quickly as you can.</p>'
  -
    type: newsletter
seo:
  description: 'More lessons I learned while running a small retail business (shortly after graduating university)'
author: Justin
dsq_thread_id: '527158527'
_wpas_skip_3416642: '1'
id: 0f4f975a-e634-45e1-b1f3-661b22ca57e1
