title: 'Change your market; save your product'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>The father of my daughter''s friend is an <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arborist">arborist</a>. He makes his living pruning and caring for trees, and he''s owned his own business for 12 years.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/tree-cutting-arborist-lumberjack.jpg
    size: xl
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>His first few years in business were really tough. He'd grind and grind and grind, but wasn't earning a substantial amount of revenue.</p><p>And then, he found his solution.</p><blockquote><p><strong>He changed his phone number.</strong></p></blockquote><p>Up until then he'd been focused on his&nbsp;local market. But there was a problem: most of them were retired farmers. There's nothing wrong with farmers, but they're DIYers:&nbsp;if their trees need pruning, cutting or care, they do it themselves.</p><p>However, looking at a map he saw an opportunity.</p><p><strong>There was an affluent suburb located twenty minutes away.</strong>&nbsp;Most of the residents were executives. They didn't have time to care for their trees; they <strong>needed&nbsp;</strong>someone to do it for them, and they have the <strong>money</strong>&nbsp;to pay for it.</p><p>So, here's what he did:</p><ul><li>He switched his phone number to a number local to that suburb.</li><li>He opened up a PO box there as well.&nbsp;</li><li>He started advertising in their yellow pages (this was in the 90s), and their local paper.<br></li></ul><p><strong>The result? </strong>The next year, 95% of his revenue comes from this new market.</p><p>In hindsight, it seems obvious: <strong>go where people need your service, and have the money to pay for it</strong>. But so many of us&nbsp;keep grinding it out in the wrong conditions.</p><h3>How changing your market can work for your software product</h3><p>One of my SaaS clients had been toiling away&nbsp;in the B2C market for years. Their product was $19/month, and just wasn't profitable.</p><p>To make matters worse, they were attracting hobbyists and prosumers that were hard to please. These customers were chewing up hours of customer support time.</p><p><strong>So we decided to change their target market.</strong>&nbsp;</p><p>We focused on a new B2B niche.&nbsp;We also cancelled their freemium plan, and raised the price to $99/month.&nbsp;</p><p>The results? Revenue increased, and customer support decreased!</p><p><br></p><ol><li><strong>Wrong product </strong>- this is the worst case scenario. No one needs it (or wants it), and thus, they're not willing to pay for it.</li><li><strong>Good product, wrong market </strong>- this is a little harder to determine. How do you know if your product is good? <strong>Try a different market.&nbsp;</strong>My arborist friend switched to an affluent market, and got way better traction. Take your product to a different audience, and see if it works.</li><li><strong>Good product, wrong positioning.&nbsp;</strong>Sometimes you've chosen the right market, but you haven't positioned your product correctly. Is your product&nbsp;priced right for your audience? Is your marketing copy speaking their language? Does your product need&nbsp;different branding or design?</li><li><strong>Good product, no channels.&nbsp;</strong>Sometimes you have a product people want, but there are no strong distribution&nbsp;channels you can use to reach the customer.</li><li><strong>Good product, bad funnel.&nbsp;</strong>It's also possible that your process&nbsp;for taking people from&nbsp;<em>anonymous website visitors&nbsp;</em>to&nbsp;<em>paying customers</em> is broken. Maybe you're asking for the sale too quickly. You might need to create multiple touch points before someone buys. Maybe you have a freemium model, and you need to switch to a more traditional sales model.</li></ol><p><br></p><p>Still grinding it out? Before you throw in the towel: it might be worth tweaking your product, and offering it to a new market.</p><p>Cheers,<br>
      Justin Jackson<br>
      <a href="http://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p><p>PS: want more? Check out my book!&nbsp;<a href="http://devmarketing.xyz">You can download a 21 page sample here.</a></p>
  -
    type: newsletter
seo:
  description: 'One small location change makes 20X improvement in this guy''s business.'
  image: /assets/content/tree-cutting-arborist-lumberjack.jpg
author: Justin
dsq_thread_id: '527158497'
_wpas_skip_3416642: '1'
_zilla_featured_post: 'off'
_zilla_gallery_transition: fade
_zilla_gallery_timeout: '0'
_zilla_image_ids: 'false'
_zilla_quote_image_darken: 'off'
_zilla_seo_robots_index: index
_zilla_seo_robots_follow: follow
id: e528a81e-2b1a-44a5-ba1a-bc0f48df14a0
