title: '8 habits for a better day at work'
author: Justin
dsq_thread_id: '527160801'
_wpas_skip_3416642: '1'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>Do you ever feel like crap at the office?</p>
      <p>I'm just like you: <strong>some days it feels like I'm on fire, and some days I don't feel so hot.</strong> However, I have found some habits and tools that help me feel <em>less </em>crappy when I'm at the office. Some of these might help you as well:</p>
      <h3>My 8 tips</h3>
      <ol>
      <li><strong>Start work at 7am: </strong>Getting to the office at 7am gives me 1-2 hours of quiet, uninterrupted time before anyone else gets here.</li>
      <li><strong>Exercise at noon: </strong>We sit at a desk all day. Getting out in the middle of day, moving my body, and sweating is the perfect remedy for too much sitting.</li>
      <li><strong>Pack a lunch: </strong>I've found when I go out for lunch, I eat too much, spend more time sitting, and skip the gym. When I pack a lunch I throw in lots of veggies and fruits. At home I wouldn't be able to force myself to eat that much "healthy" food, but at work it's all I have to eat, so I munch away on carrots and apples all day.</li>
      <li><strong>Leave work around 3pm: </strong>I have my lowest energy levels from 3pm to 5pm. By configuring my workday this way, I'm able to give my "high energy" hours to focus on work.</li>
      <li><strong>Use a standing desk: </strong><a href="http://justinjackson.ca/building-a-standing-desk/">I've been using this desk</a> since February, and I'm never going back. I can choose a variety of positions: standing, leaning, sitting, standing with one foot up, etc... Plus, if I feel "stuck" on a problem, I just walk away. Not being confined to a desk is very freeing.</li>
      <li><strong><a href="https://www.rescuetime.com/rp/justinj/signup/solo/pro">Use RescueTime</a>: </strong>this app tracks how I spend my time while I'm at my computer (what apps I use, how much time I spend on Twitter) <strong>but also how much time I spend away from my computer</strong> (in meetings for instance). The stats don't lie: having an accurate picture of how I spend my time is helping me make better decisions.</li>
      <li><strong><a href="http://basecamp.com">Use Basecamp:</a></strong> if I'm feeling stressed out about work, I usually procrastinate. Often, the reason I'm stressed out is that everything is undefined: what needs to be done? When is it due? Where are the assets for the project? Where are my notes? Basecamp helps me organize all of this: for each project I put in a start date, an end date, my notes, a todo list and any related files. Once my projects are in Basecamp, I can tackle each one, step by step.</li>
      <li><strong>I drink coffee: </strong>Seriously. Americano at 7am, coffee at 9:30am, and espresso or Americano at 3pm.</li>
      </ol>
      <p>Hope this is helpful!</p>
      <p>Cheers,<br />
      Justin Jackson<br />
      <a href="http://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p>
      <p><script src="https://app.convertkit.com/landing_pages/793.js?orient=horz"></script></p>
      
id: b903e3b7-f72a-4004-b351-b697074dbd34
