title: 'You only win once - Rodney Mullen'
author: Justin
dsq_thread_id: '937098648'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>Amazing. In <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gwjlDBjNzXk&amp;feature=youtu.be">this Ted Talk</a>, skateboarding icon <a href="https://twitter.com/mullenrodney">Rodney Mullen</a> distills many of his life lessons. <strong>Many are applicable to the tech community:</strong></p>
      <h3>On winning</h3>
      <blockquote><p>I had won 35 out of 36 contests over 11 years. Winning isn't the word: <strong>I won it once. The rest of the time you're just defending.</strong> You get into this turtle posture. It usurped the joy of what I loved to do, because I was no longer doing it to create and have fun. And when it died from under me, that was one of the most liberating things because I could create.</p>
      <footer>- Rodney Mullen, Timecode: 16:22</footer>
      </blockquote>
      <p>&nbsp;</p>
      <p>Rodney had a series of wins, but once he was at the top it didn't feel like winning anymore. He was just defending his position as a champion. And when he became defensive, it was hard to create.</p>
      <p>This has an interesting application to tech companies: many of us are trying to be #1 in our industry. <strong>We don't realize how hard it is at the top.</strong> Everyone has their sights on you. You are the incumbent that everyone wants to beat. And instead of innovating, you spend your time playing defence.</p>
      <h3>On reinventing yourself</h3>
      <p>Freestyle skateboarding died in the 1980's when street skating emerged as the dominant style. Everything Rodney had built over his lifetime, all his fame, was gone.</p>
      <blockquote><p> Suddenly it was over for me. They took my pro-model off the shelf: that's like publicly pronouncing that your [career] is dead. The crazy thing was that there was a really liberating sense about it: because I no longer had to protect my record as a champion. What drew me to skateboarding, the freedom, was restored. Now I could just create things.</p>
      <footer>- Rodney Mullen, Timecode: 3:46</footer>
      </blockquote>
      <p>&nbsp;</p>
      <p>This couldn't be more true for us in tech! We are continually having to re-invent ourselves. You might spend your whole career focusing on a certain technology (maybe you've even become a pseudo "celebrity") only to wake up one morning to discover you are no longer relevant. I love Mullen's attitude here: instead of just giving up, you reinvent yourself using whatever you can carryover from past experiences.</p>
      <blockquote><p>What I did have was a deep well of tricks that I could draw from that were rooted in [my old skills]. So as humbling and rotten as it was… I began over again. I brought [new] tricks to [street skating] that were undergirded in freestyle. I had an infrastructure [to build on].</p>
      <footer>- Rodney Mullen, Timecode: 4:40</footer>
      </blockquote>
      <h3></h3>
      <h3>On creative communities</h3>
      <p>One of the most interesting moments occurs when he refers to hacker and open source communities. He then reveals a parallel between them and the skateboard community:</p>
      <blockquote><p>We take what other guys do, and we make it our own, and then we contribute back to the community in a way that edifies the community. The summation of that gives us something that we could never achieve as an individual.</p>
      <footer>- Rodney Mullen, Timecode: 11:50</footer>
      </blockquote>
      <p>&nbsp;</p>
      <p>The parallel here is interesting. The tech culture is filled with a strong individualism, and yet we've managed to create vibrant communities where individuals contribute to a greater whole. Rodney closes his talk by stating that contributing to his community has been his life's most meaningful achievement.</p>
      <h3>Watch the whole talk</h3>
      <p><iframe src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/gwjlDBjNzXk" frameborder="0" width="560" height="315"></iframe></p>
      <div style="margin: 0; padding: 15px; background: #FFF1DD;">
      <form action="http://www.industrymailout.com/Industry/SubscribeRedirect.aspx" method="post"><input type="hidden" name="mailinglistid" value="28657" /><br />
      <input type="hidden" name="errorparm" value="error" /></p>
      <h3>Learn how to hack your office:subscribe to my mailing list.</h3>
      <p>Email: <input type="text" name="email" value="" maxlength="60" /></p>
      <p>First Name: <input type="text" name="givenname" maxlength="50" /></p>
      <p>Last Name: <input type="text" name="familyname" maxlength="50" /></p>
      <p><input class="button" type="submit" value="Subscribe" /></p>
      </form>
      </div>
      <p><em><a href="http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=4814766">Discuss this post on Hacker News</a></em></p>
      
id: 5e893ed9-4be0-4bc6-973f-2f76bf74af39
