title: 'No one wants to buy my sneakers'
author: Justin
dsq_thread_id: '913768025'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>In product development, <strong>it's a mistake to assume that other people want what we want</strong>.</p>
      <h3>Let me tell you a story.</h3>
      <p>I used to own a couple of retail shops; we sold snowboards, skateboards, and clothing. One day I was reading <a href="http://www.adbusters.org">Adbusters magazine</a> and heard about their new project: <a href="http://www.adbusters.org/cultureshop/blackspot/sneaker">Blackspot Sneakers</a>. These were shoes "made with hemp, recycled tires, vegan leather and produced in fair-trade factories". The idea was to create a grassroots brand, that produced a sustainable product. <strong>This was right up my alley: I loved the idea.</strong> Normally, making buying decisions for a retail store is something you do carefully: you're essentially risking your capital on the hope that someone will pay retail prices for what you've ordered. But in this case I was so passionate about their mission, that I instantly called them to place an order. I didn't even balk at the 25 pair minimum, or the high wholesale cost.</p>
      <p><strong>The shoes arrived.</strong> As my co-founder looked at me quizzically, I set-up a display with all the shoes, and a description of their social and environmental benefits. I featured them right at the front, as customers walked in, and promoted them in advertising. I started wearing a pair myself, and would hype them to whoever would listen.</p>
      <p><strong>No one wanted to buy my sneakers. </strong>It turns out, our customers didn't really care about shoes that embodied social justice and sustainability. Those might have been my values, but our customers had a completely different set of criteria: <em>what expresses me as an individual? What will look good at school? What brand do I identify with? What skateboard pro do I look up to?</em> Furthermore, they had a certain perception of value: to them, Blackspots just looked like expensive Chuck Taylors.</p>
      <p>Nothing teaches you the value of <strong>finding out what customers really want</strong> better than trying to figure out what kind of clothes they're willing to buy.</p>
      <h3>The lesson</h3>
      <p><strong>When building software products, the risk is the same: </strong>just because I like something, doesn't mean my customers will. <strong><a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin/status/265175707435540480">I need to sacrifice my own desires, and find out what my customers truly want</a>.</strong> I can do this by observing them (and how they actually buy and use our products), and by listening. The key is to find their underlying motivation. To quote <a href="https://twitter.com/davemcclure">David McClure</a>: "<em>Customers don’t care about your solution. They care about their problems.</em>"</p>
      <h3>Postscript</h3>
      <p><em><strong>The funny thing is: </strong>I love my Blackspot sneakers. I've had them since I originally ordered them in 2005. My buddy Keenan was the only other person who bought a pair, and he loves them as well. We've both been wearing them continuously for the last 7 years, and they're only now starting to fall apart. I recently discovered a brand-new, un-opened box in my basement. It was like Christmas. <strong>In my case, these sneakers were exactly what I was looking for</strong>. </em></p>
      <p><a href="http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=4740824">Discuss this post on Hacker News</a>.</p>
      <p><a href="http://productpeople.tv">Check out my new Product podcast</a>.</p>
      
id: 78328100-8879-4182-85fc-5902e44e102b
