title: 'Things I''ve quit doing at my desk'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p><strong>We need to think of our desks as <em>workstations.</em></strong></p><p>We do all sorts of activities at our desks that affect our ability to produce our best work.</p><p>Here are things I'm trying to quit doing at my desk.</p><h3>1. Thinking</h3><p>When you reflect on your most significant "Ah-Ha!" moments, how many of them occurred while you were staring at a screen?</p><p>If you're like me, your best thinking happens when you're not at your desk: taking a walk, going and asking another person for help, drinking a coffee, in the shower.&nbsp;</p><blockquote><p>My best thinking doesn't happen while I'm sitting at my desk.</p></blockquote><p>Your desk is for executing; do your thinking elsewhere.<br>
      </p><h3>2. Socializing</h3><p>When I sit down at my desk, I want to be in work mode. I want to prioritize my most important tasks, and then complete them with the fastest velocity possible.</p><p>Socializing while I'm at my desk sullies the purity of the workstation.</p><p>This is why the water cooler is a brilliant social construct. When you want to hang out, you can get up from your workstation and go to the "socializing station." Every office should have a designated place to socialize; a location where team members can hang out, and talk informally.</p><h3>3. Procrastinating</h3><p>If you're like me, you're spending a lot of time at your desk checking Twitter, watching YouTube, checking email, and mindlessly read blog posts.</p><p>Taking breaks throughout my workday is essential. But I want to maintain the purity of my desk as a "place where work gets done."&nbsp;</p><blockquote><p>If I need downtime, it's better for me to walk away from my desk.</p></blockquote><p>When we catch ourselves procrastinating we should ask: "Why?" Are we procrastinating because we're tired? Hungry? Bored? Are we stuck on a problem? Are we just feeling lethargic and need to get up and move around?</p><p>Figure out what's at the source of your mindless net browsing, and deal with the problem.</p><h3>4. Sitting</h3><p>For the past 18 months I've been using a standing desk. I've realized that the best part isn't that I'm standing all day; <strong>it's that I'm not sitting</strong>. A standing desk allows you to stand, sit, lean, and put one leg up while you're at your workstation. Even better, I've felt more freedom to <em>just walk away </em>when I'm faced with a problem and need to do some thinking (or when I'm tired and need a break).</p><h2>Follow the example of the classics</h2><p>Well-known authors like George Barnard Shaw, Roald Dahl, and Virginia Woolf, maintained writing sheds.</p>
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/george-barnard-shaw.jpg
    size: md
    brutalized: true
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>These huts had one purpose: it's the place they went to write. They didn't do anything else there. Once they were done writing for the day, they would leave their workspace.</p><p>Modern writers, like <a href="https://betterhumans.coach.me/environment-design-an-incredibly-powerful-productivity-tool-9e46fd219cbc">Kunal Shandilya</a>, have also discovered the benefits of using contextual zones to get work done:</p><blockquote><p>I went from writing on my bed at home to only writing in the college library. I made the library a specific contextual zone for writing. Getting started with my writing seemed easier, and I was happier with the output.</p></blockquote><p>We need to think of our desks in the same way: these are places where we get work done.</p><p>Cheers,<br>
      Justin Jackson<br>
      <a href="http://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p>
  -
    type: newsletter
author: Justin
dsq_thread_id: '846717027'
_wpas_skip_3416642: '1'
id: 652474cf-db9d-484f-9d36-ddb024a5fd04
