title: 'What Amy Hoy taught me about starting a business'
author: Justin
dsq_thread_id: '1001937318'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>I first heard about Amy when I saw <a href="http://twistori.com">Twistori</a>. Soon after, I started following her on Twitter. It didn't take long for me to realize that Amy could teach me a lot about starting a business and building products. Since then we've interacted on Twitter and through email. I haven't taken her <a href="http://unicornfree.com/30x500/">30x500 class</a> (yet), but I hope to in the future (maybe once all of our kids are in school).</p>
      <p>In the meantime, I found an interview that I think illuminates her business philosophy perfectly. In <a href="http://5by5.tv/founderstalk/6">Founder's Talk episode 6</a> (witih Adam Stacoviak) Amy describes her best advice for building a product [42:00]:</p>
      <h3>First: Define what you want to achieve</h3>
      <p>This involves setting goals for you and for your business. I love that she mentions the personal goal. <strong>It's important to ask: what do you want to achieve for yourself?</strong> Amy says: "Get really concrete about it. How much do you want to earn? [Something like] 'I want to bring in $200,000 a year,' is a great place to start."</p>
      <p><strong>When you launch into a project without first identifying what you want to achieve, how will you know if you've succeeded?</strong> Having a goal of earning 200k is a lot more achievable than "I want to make a lot of money". It gives you something to shoot for but also leaves you accountable if you fail. That's the point.</p>
      <h3>Second: Forget ideas; study a market</h3>
      <p>This is Amy's best piece of advice. We're all holed up in our caves, with our notebooks, trying to come up with great startup ideas. Amy says: "Forget ideas. Go actually spend lots and lots of time with people". What are you doing while you're spending time? You're searching for their pain <strong>not </strong>pitching them ideas. It's actually better <strong>to not</strong> have ideas; instead just walk yourself into a room, plunk yourself down, and just listen to what people are complaining about. What problems does this market have that you could solve?</p>
      <p><strong>Update: </strong><a href="https://twitter.com/amyhoy/status/285890009549131777">Amy recommends listening for pain online</a> (in forums, etc...) rather than interviewing people in real life. The risk is that "in real life, people will bitch, just to have conversation".</p>
      <h3>Third: Target people with money</h3>
      <p>Amy continues her thought: "[Spend time with people] who obviously like to pay for things." This is our second problem as founders: <strong>we often target people with no money!</strong> We go after teachers, consumers, non-profits, students, and hobbyists. Meanwhile, there's an office manager somewhere in Winnipeg who loses $3,000 worth of productivity to paperwork every month. That person is dying for help and would gladly pay $300/month for an app that solves her problem.</p>
      <h3>Fourth: Make sure you like your customer</h3>
      <p>So you've identified a market that has money, and where you can create value; time to get started, right? Not so fast. Think about this: you're about to start a business serving this niche of people. This could become your life's work: would you be OK interacting with these folks every single day, for the rest of your life? "[These have to be] people who you like, and can imagine doing business with", Amy says. <a href="http://vimeo.com/48962410">She also put it this way</a>: "If you don't like drunk frat boys, don't open an Irish pub".</p>
      <h3>Fifth: Identify where you're going to provide value</h3>
      <p>Now you have a market, and you have a list of things that are causing them pain. Now it's time to narrow it down: where can you create real value that they'll pay for? "Be very pragmatic", Amy cautions:</p>
      <blockquote><p>Don't say: 'How can I change their lives?' Instead, say: 'You pay me $30, and I'll save you $60 a month or earn you $60 month'. Make it about the math.</p></blockquote>
      <p>This is why you want to target folks who can pay. A college student might want software to organize their homework, but they can't afford to pay anything. A business owner, on the other hand, will gladly pay $30/month if you help them save money or earn more income. This is why Amy built <a href="http://letsfreckle.com">Freckle</a> (a time tracking app): if you can track your time, minimize waste, and invoice your clients easier, you're going to earn more money (and waste less time).</p>
      <h3>Finally: Build it and charge for it as soon as possible</h3>
      <p>Once you've checked off the previous five items you're ready to get to work. "When you find that [place where you can create value], build it and charge for it as soon as possible" Amy concludes. It's not easy to build a product, but your chances of success are much greater if you build the the <em>right product</em> for the <i>right market.</i></p>
      <p><em><a href="http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=4991126">Discuss this on Hacker News</a></em></p>
      <p>&nbsp;</p>
      <div style="margin: 0; padding: 15px; background: #FFF1DD;">
      <form action="http://www.industrymailout.com/Industry/SubscribeRedirect.aspx" method="post"><input type="hidden" name="mailinglistid" value="28657" /><br />
      <input type="hidden" name="errorparm" value="error" /></p>
      <h3>Optimize your office so it's more productive: subscribe to my mailing list.</h3>
      <p>Email: <input type="text" maxlength="60" name="email" value="" /></p>
      <p>First Name: <input type="text" maxlength="50" name="givenname" /></p>
      <p>Last Name: <input type="text" maxlength="50" name="familyname" /></p>
      <p><input class="button" type="submit" value="Subscribe" /></p>
      </form>
      </div>
      
id: 141ad315-20a3-4908-bcf8-e6aae69d1f0f
