title: 'Quit trying to attract a crowd and just help people'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>I had a great chat with&nbsp;<a href="https://medium.com/r/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fhitenism.com%2F">Hiten Shah</a>&nbsp;on my podcast,&nbsp;<a href="https://medium.com/r/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fproductpeople.tv%2F2013%2F05%2F08%2Fep25-hiten-shah-part-2%2F">Product People</a>.<br></p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/justin-jackson-hiten-shah.jpg
    size: md
    brutalized: true
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>At one point, Hiten brought up an idea I’ve been hearing a lot lately:</p><blockquote><p>One of the key things we’re learning is that you need to build an audience before you build your product. Build your audience not for marketing, but for learning.</p></blockquote><p>Too many of us are building products that don’t have a market. Hiten''s insight is that you shouldn''t start with an idea, but instead start with people.</p>'
  -
    type: sidebar
    text: '**Example:** you’re a Shopify consultant. You work with e-commerce store owners every day. <em>As you''re in their world, you start to observe what they struggle with on a daily basis.</em> It’s these pain points that become the seeds for new product ideas.'
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p><strong>I think Hiten is on to something here.</strong></p><p>And yet, for anyone who’s never built an audience, this idea is hard to grasp. For one, many of us don’t know where to start:</p><blockquote><p>How do I get started if I can’t even identify the niches that I belong to?</p></blockquote><p>There are practical questions, as well:</p><blockquote><p>How do I get people to follow me on Twitter, my blog, etc…?<br>
      How do I know if my niche will be profitable?</p></blockquote><p>There’s also this nagging personal question I’ve had:</p><blockquote><p>Isn’t it self-serving to build an audience, only so you can sell something to them?</p></blockquote><h3>Your mindset affects everything</h3><p>Your mindset is a powerful thing: it has a strong influence over the outcomes you’ll achieve.</p><p>If you try to build an audience while you’re focused on yourself you’re going to get bad results. No one’s going to follow someone who’s self-absorbed and desperate.</p><h3>How do I find my niche?</h3><p>Derek Sivers makes a great point in&nbsp;<a href="https://medium.com/r/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.youtube.com%2Fwatch%3Fv%3D1h6RsLxro9s">Start Now: No Funding Needed</a>:</p><blockquote><p>Start by teaching someone something this week.</p></blockquote><p>I love this. Instead of trying to build a big audience, you&nbsp;start by looking for opportunities to help.</p><p>This mindset is helping me move from being&nbsp;<em>self-focused</em>&nbsp;to&nbsp;<em>other-focused</em>.</p><p>You see, when you focus on the needs of others, “finding your niche” actually takes care of itself.</p><p>Derek Sivers was a musician who had more programming knowledge than most musicians. When he started helping artists add a shopping cart to their websites, he “fell into” his niche. He was just trying to help people out, and it turned into a business.</p><h3>The secret to a big audience</h3><p><a href="https://twitter.com/hnshah">Hiten Shah has a big audience</a>, but that didn’t happen overnight. He’s been focused on helping marketers since 2002.&nbsp;<strong>That’s his secret: he started small, 11 years ago.&nbsp;</strong>Look at his&nbsp;<a href="https://medium.com/r/?url=https%3A%2F%2Ftwitter.com%2Fhnshah">Twitter stream</a>, look at&nbsp;<a href="https://hitenism.com/">his blog</a>.&nbsp;He's always on the lookout for opportunities to help people.</p><p>After 4 years of helping marketers, Hiten and his co-founder Neil Patel saw the need for heatmaps, so they built&nbsp;<a href="https://medium.com/r/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.crazyegg.com%2F">CrazyEgg</a>. Two years after that, marketers were asking for help managing funnels, so they built&nbsp;<a href="https://medium.com/r/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fkissmetrics.com%2F">Kissmetrics</a>. These days he's focused on <a href="https://usefyi.com/?ref=justinjackson">FYI</a>.</p><p>We see the big Twitter follower-count, but we don’t see what’s behind that: looking for ways to help people every day.</p><h3>Start small</h3><p>Let’s return to our friend Derek Sivers:</p><blockquote><p>Starting small puts 100% of your energy on solving real problems for real people.</p></blockquote><p><strong>Quit thinking about yourself.</strong>&nbsp;Stop focusing on your insecurities, your lack of experience, and your non-existant social network. It’s OK.</p><p><strong>Instead, look for opportunities to help people.</strong>&nbsp;</p><p>When the person in the cubicle next to you is cursing at their computer&nbsp;<em>that’s an opportunity</em>. When you notice a question in a forum with no answers&nbsp;<em>that’s an opportunity.&nbsp;</em>When someone approaches you for advice<em>&nbsp;that’s an opportunity.</em></p><p>Eventually, you’ll stumble on a trend:&nbsp;<em>you’ll notice that a common group of people have a common problem</em>.</p><p>Suddenly, you’ll have an audience.</p><p>And then, you’ll have an opportunity to help those people with a product.</p><blockquote><p>"Never worry about numbers. Help one person at a time, and always start with the person nearest you." - Mother Theresa</p></blockquote><p>Cheers,<br>
      Justin Jackson<br>
      <a href="http://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p>
  -
    type: newsletter
seo:
  description: 'Hiten brought up an idea I’ve been hearing a lot lately:  One of the key things we’re learning is that you need to build an audience before you build your product. Build your audience not for marketing, but for learning.'
author: Justin
_wpas_skip_3416642: '1'
id: 706b5a08-f5a6-4aa0-ab8e-ae0c84d5a29f
