title: 'Believe in me'
author: Justin
_wpas_skip_3416642: '1'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p><em>This post is part of this week’s Startup Edition to answer the question: <a href="http://startupedition.com/post/52684826236/how-did-you-get-your-first-customer">How did you get your first customer?</a></em></p>
      <p>Your first customer will come one of two ways:</p>
      <ol>
      <li><span style="line-height: 13px;">A person will believe in you, and buy</span></li>
      <li>A person will believe in you, and convince someone else to buy</li>
      </ol>
      <p>People that connect you with new customers are invaluable. They're called <em>boosters</em>: people who are so passionate about what you're doing, that they'll share it with everyone they know.</p>
      <p><strong>This reminds me: when I was 18  I decided to start a video production company. </strong>I thought I could make money making wedding videos in the summer, and could pursue creative projects in the winter.</p>
      <p>My parents thought I was a little crazy; maybe I should just keep the job I had at the hotel?</p>
      <p><strong>But I had a friend named Rebecca who believed in me.</strong> Rebecca was a bit older than me, in her 20's, and had friends who were getting married. She started telling everyone about me, and my service. She vouched for me, and said I would do a great job. Every time she introduced me to someone she would say: "Justin has just started a video production company."</p>
      <p><strong>This is how Rebecca ended up getting me my first paying gig: </strong>she had two friends that were planning a wedding, who signed up for a wedding video. I didn't have a car, so she drove me to the rehearsal. Her enthusiasm gave me the momentum and confidence I needed. After that first gig I was able to go out and get new customers on my own, but Rebecca continued to be my cheerleader. Once, I even forgot my video camera at home while on-site at a shoot; she happily picked it up and brought it to me.</p>
      <p>The truth is, I don't think I would have made it very far without that first believer.</p>
      <p><b>Sometimes you're not looking for your first customer, you're looking for your first <em>booster: </em></b><strong>a passionate believer who will promote you to everyone they meet and cheer you on when you're feeling down. </strong>If you encounter someone like this, and they're actually convincing people to <em>buy</em>, count yourself lucky! Thank them: let them know you appreciate their help.</p>
      <p><em>Derek Sivers has <a title="Derek Sivers on Leadership" href="http://sivers.org/ff" target="_blank">a great video on this topic</a>.</em></p>
      <p><em>This post is part of this week’s Startup Edition to answer the question: <a href="http://startupedition.com/post/52684826236/how-did-you-get-your-first-customer">How did you get your first customer?</a></em></p>
      
id: c5287cb0-1e05-44fa-8ae8-15cec5c10996
