title: 'Succeed with your own product in 2014'
author: Justin
_wpas_skip_3416642: '1'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>When you're trying to build your own product, it's easy to get in a rut. Stuff happens, and it affects your momentum: failed launches, procrastination, fear, not knowing where to start... all these things take their toll.</p>
      <p>But 2014 is a new year. The new year is the perfect time to renew your energy, and actually <em>launch</em> something.</p>
      <p>Here's a framework for helping you succeed with your own product starting this January.</p>
      <blockquote><p>"The best time to take action toward a dream is yesterday; the worst is tomorrow; the best compromise is today."</p>
      <p>~ Alvah Simon, Author</p></blockquote>
      <h3>Who is your audience, and what do they need?</h3>
      <p>It's time to go back to basics: who are your customers?</p>
      <p>In the midst of building your product, you might have forgotten about <em>who</em> you're trying to serve with this <em>thing</em> you're building.</p>
      <p>Take the beginning of January develop a clear vision of who your customer is, and what they need. Reach out to customers <em>personally</em>. Get a feel for who they are, what they do, and what they need help with.</p>
      <p>You're not just developing software / writing a book / offering a download: <strong>you're helping real people solve real problems</strong>.</p>
      <blockquote><p>"[Successful companies] create products for people in their audience — not some niche industry they discovered maybe needed software or books... they focused on helping people"</p>
      <p>~ Amy Hoy, <a href="http://unicornfree.com/2013/37signals-isnt-mythical-youre-not-paying-attention">30x500</a></p></blockquote>
      <h3>What are you building, and why does it matter?</h3>
      <p>Now, take a look at your product. What have you been building? Does it match up with what your customers need?</p>
      <p>Maybe that feature you were hammering on in 2013 just doesn't matter - it's OK to stop working on it. In fact, to succeed, you're going to need to focus on what <em>does</em> matter.</p>
      <p>Where's the gap between what you currently provide, and the pain that your audience has?</p>
      <blockquote><p>"People don’t buy software, they buy outcomes."</p>
      <p>~ Brennan Dunn, <a href="http://planscope.io">Planscope</a></p></blockquote>
      <h3>Focus on one thing at a time</h3>
      <p>Trying to solve multiple pain points all at once will spread you too thin. Pick the biggest pain point and focus on <em>just</em> that until it's shipped. Coming up with ideas for new features gives you a temporary high: it's invigorating to think about other projects you could work on. But the key to success is seeing one project through before starting on another.</p>
      <p>If you're looking for a good organizational system, I recommend <a href="http://www.personalkanban.com/pk/personal-kanban-101/#sthash.oSmDVPi6.dpbs">Personal Kanban</a>.</p>
      <blockquote><p>"There’s not much more important than focus and tenacity."</p>
      <p>~ Seth Godin, <a href="http://writelife.net/2010/03/15/seth-godin-answers-a-few-questions/">(Source)</a></p></blockquote>
      <h3>Remove distractions</h3>
      <p>In order to really focus, remove every distraction that you can.</p>
      <p>Just sit in your office, and observe your impulses. What breaks your concentration?</p>
      <p>Maybe it's when the phone rings. Or a Twitter notification. Kids yelling? Bored of your surroundings?</p>
      <p>Take note of the things that keep you from getting your best work done, and try to minimize those things.</p>
      <blockquote><p>"Each time a worker was distracted from a task, it would take, on average, 25 minutes to return to that task."</p>
      <p>~ Clive Thompson, <a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2005/10/16/magazine/16guru.html?ex=1287115200&amp;en=c8985a80d74cefc1&amp;ei=5090&amp;partner=rssuserland&amp;emc=rss&amp;_r=1&amp;">Meet the Life Hackers</a></p></blockquote>
      <h3>Deal with personal issues</h3>
      <p>You've observed what environmental distractions affect your productivity, but there's one more factor you need to consider. You have <em>internal</em> distractions as well: the stress in your life.</p>
      <p>If you're worried about debt, a relational issue, your health, you're not going to make good decisions in other areas of your life (including business). Deal with those personal issues first!</p>
      <p>More reading: <em><a href="http://www.forbes.com/sites/daviddisalvo/2012/10/15/how-stress-affects-your-mental-health/">How stress affects your mental health</a></em>.</p>
      <h3>Put regular check-ups in your calendar</h3>
      <p>If you haven't already, make it a goal to schedule the following things in your company's calendar:</p>
      <ul>
      <li>Quarterly product check-up: are you on the right track? Are you helping customers with real needs?</li>
      <li>Monthly accountability group meeting: get together <a href="http://jfdi.bz">with other folks building products</a>. Share your struggles, questions, and successes.</li>
      <li>Bigger events / conferences: plan to attend 1-2 conferences this year. Put them in your calendar now!</li>
      <li>Quarterly fun: plan something fun. Ideally, something every 3 months is ideal. This could be as simple as taking the afternoon off to go see a movie, or planning a weekend ski trip.</li>
      </ul>
      <h3>January is a great month to figure this stuff out</h3>
      <p>It's ok to take the month of January to go through the process:</p>
      <ul>
      <li>Ask "who is your audience, and what do they need?"</li>
      <li>Ask "what are you building, and why does it matter?"</li>
      <li>Pick the biggest pain point and make that your first focus for 2014</li>
      <li>Observe your work environment, and remove distractions</li>
      <li>Think about how you could reduce your individual stress</li>
      <li>Plan a calendar</li>
      </ul>
      
id: 5f3b93c3-1a56-4815-bee9-bb0f30a56d83
