title: 'Producing good content isn''t enough'
author: Justin
_wpas_skip_3416642: '1'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>People say the secret to successful blogging is to "keep putting out good content".</p>
      <p>But that's not totally true.</p>
      <p>You could be writing amazing posts that nobody hears about.</p>
      <p>My readers often send me samples of their writing: these are brilliant designers, developers, and entrepreneurs. They have great insights they could be sharing with the world. But their voice is small. They keep blogging, but nobody hears them.</p>
      <p><a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin/status/368773714784956418">There's this fallacy that good content always gets discovered; but the truth is that good content needs <em>distribution</em> in order to be seen.</a></p>
      <p>I remember getting my first taste of this when Derek Sivers <a href="https://twitter.com/sivers/status/100398678501634048">tweeted out</a> a link to <a href="http://justinjackson.ca/this-tree-guy-has-good-business-advice/">my blog</a>. My site had been chugging along at 10-40 views a day. Even though I was trying to promote my posts on Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, and in the comments of other blogs, I had barely broken 100 views a day.</p>
      <p>And then one day I decided to email Derek Sivers one of my posts. He liked it. He shared it with his followers, and I had my biggest day yet: <a href="http://justinjackson.ca/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/stats-on-aug-7-2011.png">781 views</a>!</p>
      <p>That was my first glimpse at the power of networks. Derek's one tweet had more of an impact than all of my hustling. A little bit of effort from him was worth much, much more than what I could achieve on my own. He graciously allowed me to reach the audience he'd been building since 1998.</p>
      <p>Good content is still important. Derek obviously cares about his audience: these are the friends, customers, and colleagues he's met over a lifetime. These are his people. A tweet may seem like a small thing, but, to Derek, everything he shares with his followers is important. He wants to be thoughtful in what he passes along.</p>
      <p>Instead of being thoughtful, we often start with "our own great ideas". We have a personal thought, write it down, and then blast it out to the world. Then we wonder why no one cared.</p>
      <p>Getting traction with content is a lot like product-market fit. Focus first on <em>what a particular community needs,</em> and work your way backwards from there.</p>
      <p>Once you have something people really need, then you can find distribution. And yes, finding distribution means taking your <em>best content </em>to key individuals and communities.</p>
      <p>This is where you need to connect with targeted networks bigger than yourself. The "Digg effect" is still important, but you don't want to just hook up to a firehose of traffic. Rather, it's about connecting your message with communities that need it.</p>
      <p>Also: don't beg random celebrities to re-tweet your stuff. Instead: build relationships. Hang out with people in online communities. The more connected you are, the better you'll understand the pulse of a given audience.</p>
      <p>One last thought: it's not just about numbers. With the aforementioned knowledge in-hand, I've been able to connect with much larger audiences (<i><a title="This is a web page" href="http://justinjackson.ca/this-is-a-web-page/">This is a web page</a> </i>hit 78,763 views in one day). But I also understand that not every post will (or needs to) hit it big. For instance, in 6 days <a href="http://justinjackson.ca/jfdi.html">J.F.D.I.</a> produced about 11,000 views, but <a href="http://jfdi.bz/campfire">has already produced a vibrant community</a>.</p>
      <p>What's important is that when you create something meaningful, you're able to connect it with a group of people who can benefit from it.</p>
      <p>Cheers,<br />
      Justin Jackson<br />
      <a href="http://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p>
      <p><span style="font-size: 0.9em;">PS: I know there's a lot of you trying to get traction on your personal blogs, corporate sites, and landing pages. This is what <a href="http://gum.co/amplification/">Amplification</a> is about: it's a course I wrote to help you take your <em>best</em> content, and truly share it with the world. I've also hidden a picture of me with the best nerd mullet of all time somewhere in the Amplification course. <a href="https://gumroad.com/l/amplification">You'll have to order it to see it</a>!</span></p>
      
id: 4e3769bf-6ac9-49fe-8708-801530e90654
