title: 'Why didn''t you launch last year?'
author: Justin
_wpas_skip_3416642: '1'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>Did you make a goal to launch your own product last year? Did you succeed?</p>
      <p>I struggled for years to get a product built and launched. This past year I finally launched two small products: a book called <a href="http://buildandlaunch.net/book/amplification/">Amplification</a>, and an online community called <a href="http://jfdi.bz">JFDI</a>.</p>
      <p>Here are some reasons you might not have launched last year, and what you can do to overcome them this year:</p>
      <h3><strong>You just didn't start</strong></h3>
      <p>You thought about it, dreamt about it, and talked about it, but you never put pen to paper (or hands to keyboard) and just started.</p>
      <blockquote><p>"Just get started." - <a href="https://twitter.com/natekontny/status/409745751812894720">Nathan Kontny</a></p></blockquote>
      <h3><strong>You didn't set aside regular time to work on it</strong></h3>
      <p>Getting started is half the battle, finishing is the other half. If you're trying to build something on the side, schedule a regular time to work on it. I've found that building a regular habit (like getting up every Saturday at 6am, and working 2 hours) is the most effective way to schedule your time.</p>
      <h3><strong>Your idea was too big</strong></h3>
      <p>Nothing kills momentum like a huge project that you're barely making a dent in. This past summer, I had plans on writing a full book called <em>Build &amp; Launch</em>. Once I started writing it, I realized that at my current pace it would take me at least a year to launch. I decided instead to launch <a href="https://gumroad.com/l/amplification">a smaller book + resources</a>. I thought it would take me 3 weeks (it ended up taking 3 months), but I did launch. <a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin/status/413019797165584384">Shipping something small is better than not shipping at all</a>.</p>
      <h3>You didn't build an audience</h3>
      <p><a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin/status/413026341559496704">Trying to build a product without an audience is like hosting a dinner party when you haven't invited any guests</a>. First: if you don't know who's coming, you don't know what kind of food to make. Second: who would cook a big meal if they hadn't invited any guests? <strong>If you start anything in 2014, start building an audience.</strong></p>
      <h3>You tried doing it alone</h3>
      <p><a href="http://planscope.io/blog/how-i-changed-the-world-in-2013/">Brennan Dunn</a> just posted a "year in review" on his blog. The guy is a machine: he's done well over 6 figures in product revenue this year, has 9 different products, and is a wizard at automating his marketing. It looks like he's doing this all by himself, but the truth is, Brennan has a good support network:</p>
      <blockquote><p>[One of the best things I've done in 2013] was I’ve kept myself accountable to others.</p>
      <p>When you’re bootstrapping, things can get a bit lonely. Especially when, like me, you live in a pretty agrarian part of the world.</p>
      <p>I spent a lot of time building and strengthening relationships with fellow product people this year. It’s helped me for partnerships, cross-promotional opportunities, and get advice and feedback on initiatives I was experimenting with. But most importantly, it helped me keep myself accountable to others, while helping others stay accountable to themselves.</p>
      <p>I’m involved in two Masterminds, one meets weekly and the other (which I just joined) meets every two weeks. I also hang out in two group chat rooms for bootstrappers. Being able to show up and see familiar faces who know what you’re up to and can provide on-the-spot advice or feedback.</p></blockquote>
      <h3>What are you going to do different 2014?</h3>
      <p>It's time to <em>just start</em>. Start by building an audience. Set aside regular time to work on your project. Focus on a small product first! And get a support group: hang out with likeminded people that can encourage you, give you advice, and give you feedback.</p>
      <p>Cheers,<br />
      Justin Jackson<br />
      <a href="http://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p>
      <p>PS: I run a community called <a href="http://jfdi.bz">JFDI</a>. It's aimed at bootstrappers that want to build relationships, and accountability, with other bootstrappers. We have a Campfire room we hang out in, and we also run a regular "Week of Hustle" every month: it's designed to help you <em>start and finish </em>a project in a week. The next one begins January 2, 2014 (perfect timing if you're thinking about tackling a product launch this year). We've just opened up registration again: <a href="http://jfdi.bz">you can sign-up here</a>.</p>
      <p><script src="https://app.convertkit.com/landing_pages/793.js?orient=horz"></script></p>
      
id: 163179b7-cc32-4efe-9786-cd75f3688f50
