title: 'The principle that changed my life'
author: Justin
_wpas_skip_3416642: '1'
_zilla_featured_post: 'off'
_zilla_gallery_transition: fade
_zilla_gallery_timeout: '0'
_zilla_image_ids: 'false'
_zilla_quote_quote: ''
_zilla_quote_author: ''
_zilla_quote_image_darken: 'off'
_zilla_link_title: ''
_zilla_link_url: ''
_zilla_video_m4v: ''
_zilla_video_ogv: ''
_zilla_video_poster_url: ''
_zilla_video_embed_code: ''
_zilla_audio_mp3: ''
_zilla_audio_ogg: ''
_zilla_seo_title: ''
_zilla_seo_description: ''
_zilla_seo_keywords: ''
_zilla_seo_robots_index: index
_zilla_seo_robots_follow: follow
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p><strong>On Okinawa Island there are a lot of people over the age of 100; </strong><em>3x more</em> than in the United States. Many have wondered: how do Okinawans maintain such a high standard of health?</p>
      <p>Researchers have traced their longevity to a Confucian practice called<em>hara hachi bu. </em>Roughly translated it means: “eat until you are 80% full.”</p>
      <p>This means Okinawans eat only about 1,800 calories a day. The result? Their rates of cancer, heart disease, and dimentia are much lower than the western world. [<a href="http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,994967-4,00.html">Source 1</a>] [<a href="http://www.okicent.org/cent.html">Source 2</a>]</p>
      <hr />
      <p>However, this isn’t an article about restricting your calories (although, based on the evidence, that might be a good idea).</p>
      <p>I’ve been experimenting with <em>hara hachi bu </em>beyond dieting. I’m far from a master, but I wanted to share what I’ve experienced so far.</p>
      <hr />
      <p><strong>As Westerners, we believe in pushing up against the limits, and going over them: </strong>we’re pedal to the metal, giving 110%, and our <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ll7rWiY5obI">amps go to 11</a>. We max ourselves out in every facet of our lives: our finances, our relationships, our health, and our careers.</p>
      <hr />
      <p><strong>I love to work.</strong> For years, I would go to the office in the morning, and spend every ounce of creative energy that I had. I gave it all until I had nothing left. If I had extra time, I would pick up a new project. Over the years I became responsible for more and more things. I was consistently promoted, until I became the youngest Regional Director in the country.</p>
      <p><strong>When I wasn’t at work, I filled my time with side-projects:</strong> I volunteered on committees, I founded a business with some friends, and started working on my Masters Degree.</p>
      <p>During this time I’d also gotten married, and we’d had our first child.</p>
      <p><strong>I loved the busyness. </strong>I was firing on all cylinders. Spinning all these plates in the air. The world was my oyster!</p>
      <p>And it all worked fine until…</p>
      <p>…I cracked.</p>
      <p><strong>You see, I had no reserves.</strong> The problem with being maxed out is you can’t deal with anything new. I couldn’t fit anything else in. I’d squeezed my schedule, my finances, my energy, and my family to the absolute limit. <em>And then a crisis: the business I’d invested in went bad</em>. I had no extra room to deal with a crisis: all those plates I’d been spinning came crashing down. I experienced depression for the first time in my life.</p>
      <hr />
      <p>As I began the slow process of rebuilding, I decided I would start practicing a form of mental <em>hara hachi bu </em>at work<em>.</em> <strong>I became conscious of the amount of energy I spent at the office.</strong> I would deliberately pace myself so I that I spent only 80% of my mental energy throughout the day.</p>
      <p>There’s not really a good way of describing how I determine whether or not I’m at 80%. <strong>It’s a state of being mindful.</strong> I try not to overstimulate my brain: I pick 2-3 big things to accomplish a day. After that, I focus on little things that don’t require as much energy.</p>
      <p><strong>The benefits have been huge.</strong></p>
      <p><strong>First, and most importantly, I have space for crisis.</strong> If something unexpected and urgent comes in, I have the mental wherewithal to deal with it.</p>
      <p><strong>Second, I do better work.</strong> Instead of being overstimulated, my mind is more focused. By acknowledging my limits, I spend my resources more wisely.</p>
      <p><strong>Third, I’m in it for the long haul.</strong> I’m no longer at constant risk of burnout.</p>
      <hr />
      <p>Like I said, I’m still not a master, but I’m trying to apply the “80% full” metaphor to other areas of my life: finances, social commitments, and the amount of media I consume.</p>
      <p>Do you think <em>hara hachi bu </em>could work for you? Have you tried something similar?</p>
      <p><em>You can reach me on Twitter here: </em><a href="http://twitter.com/mijustin"><em>@mijustin</em></a><em> or </em></p>
      <p>Photo credit: <a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/riebart/">Michael Himbault</a></p>
      
id: ae649428-dff8-4a70-b37a-ebefb4b05f7d
