title: 'Heads down'
author: Justin
seo:
  description: 'The successful people I know create space for focused, uninterrupted, heads down time. The problem, for most of us, is we''re always distracted!'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>I'm always interviewing creative people; I like learning from folks who make cool stuff.</p>
      <p>Over the years, I've built a pretty good network. When I ask someone if they can jump on a call, they almost always say yes.</p>
      <p>But one time, <a href="http://sivers.org">Derek Sivers</a> turned me down.</p>
      <p>Here's the email he sent me:</p>
      <blockquote><p>I’d love to do an interview! But could we wait just a few months?</p></blockquote>
      <blockquote><p>I’m deep in the middle of my programming. Very head-down. Not much to say. I’d be a pretty bad interview right now.</p></blockquote>
      <blockquote><p>But if you don’t mind waiting a few months, I’ll be more head-up with a lot of new stuff to talk about.</p></blockquote>
      <blockquote><p>Is that OK? Ask me again after July or so?</p></blockquote>
      <p>Derek Sivers is one of the most generous people I’ve met: the kind of guy that will write a two-page response to a question I’ve asked him. But he also understands that<strong> a focused mind produces great work.</strong></p>
      <h3>Here's what I learned about focus</h3>
      <p>The more I thought about it, the more I realized that this characteristic isn't unique to Derek.</p>
      <p>Almost all of the successful people I know create space for focused, uninterrupted, “heads down” time.</p>
      <p>The problem, for most of us, is we're always “heads up”. We’re scanning Twitter, answering emails, saying “yes” to new requests, going to meetings, reading the news, jumping on a new side-project, opening new tabs, and getting distracted by pop-up notifications.</p>
      <p>In his 2012 <a href="http%3A%2F%2Fwww.livestream.com%2Fsuperconf%2Fvideo%3FclipId%3Dpla_6a6d155a-29a6-49a6-a367-0105c9e7ab39%26utm_source%3Dlslibrary%26utm_medium%3Dui-thumb">SuperConf talk</a>, <a href="https://twitter.com/cnagele">Chris Nagele</a>, the founder of <a href="http://wildbit.com/">Wildbit</a>, explains how he produces high-quality work:</p>
      <blockquote><p><strong>Building an amazing product is about being focused.</strong> Avoid multi-tasking. Sweat every single detail. Make sure it’s perfect.</p></blockquote>
      <blockquote><p><strong>Despite what some people tell you, you do have to work hard.</strong> It doesn’t mean you have to work 15 hour days. <strong>It does mean that when you do sit down to work, you need to put your head down and work.</strong> Get the fuck off of Twitter! If you’re getting distracted every 5 minutes, you won’t get any work done.</p></blockquote>
      <h3>How to go heads down and do good work</h3>
      <p>To do this well, you have to prioritize and focus on one thing at a time. What’s the most important item you need to get done? Do that, and don’t get distracted by anything else.</p>
      <ol>
      <li>Start heads up. Figure out your priorities: what do you need to achieve? What’s your timeline? If you’re on a team, do this together.</li>
      <li>Find a place where you can work free of distractions.</li>
      <li>Dedicate your most productive time of day to working quietly, in solitude (ie. early mornings)</li>
      <li>Turn off notifications, close that email window, TweetDeck, and chat. Block tempting websites.</li>
      <li>Heads down. Commit to working distraction free. Focus on your goal. Start working!</li>
      <li>Finish what you’re doing. I’ve found that 10% and 90% done (respectively) are the hardest hurdles to overcome. Get over those humps, and keep going.</li>
      </ol>
      <p>You can’t stay in heads-down mode forever; you’ll eventually find your rhythm: i.e., focused creative time in the morning, less creative tasks in the afternoons.</p>
      <p>If we want to achieve the success of great creators we need to emulate their habits. Let’s practice being heads down.</p>
      <blockquote><p>You have to tune everything out, and just work. And you have to do that every single day. - Chris Nagele</p></blockquote>
      <p>I hope this is helpful for you!<br />
      Justin Jackson<br />
      <a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p>
      <p><em>Sketch by <a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/kaeru/1599676842/in/photolist-3rmLcd-eyyZxQ-mpp3x-kxVDXy-eyyZWw-8DgjA3-VRhsto-5Dg2nS-43Z9rp-ixFoE-9C9wfh-4AyPzZ-Y2t5wQ-9csQm8-woK6n-FypaQ-43YU9U-43YUef-5125z9-qiZ4U-3hH191-Fuaybj-5i6trC-L4hCzA-mJbUZj-dKFydv-fgVfkv-9un8kg-5T3zJC-5VwX8A-SjniNw-XnWjsS-57HxYV-5ymmFN-g75cTa-7AhrvK-AcHC1k-9uneQ9-oLd2j1-XfZc5k-66rmRi-bzdSgK-hj2fCx-d2CEBh-7vaua1-5j3vyv-5XWVEF-43YUBS-43UPNB-oZvLCk">Karl Alfrink</a></em></p>
      <p>You might also enjoy:</p>
      <ul>
      <li><a href="https://justinjackson.ca/focus-on-your-own-shit/">Focus on your own shit</a></li>
      <li><a href="https://justinjackson.ca/rut/">Get out of your creative rut</a></li>
      </ul>
      
id: fdfac920-ff89-47c4-ad77-0bc85a1dcedb
