title: 'A simple way to validate your startup idea'
author: Justin
_wpas_skip_3416642: '1'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>Here's a simple way to validate your startup idea: take a piece of paper, and write out the names of 5 people that need your product.</p>
      <p>Just 5 people.</p>
      <p>This is an effective test, because it makes it real. <strong>If you built this thing, who would buy it?</strong></p>
      <p>Can't think of 5 people? That's a red flag. Are you targeting a product at a group of people you don't yet have a connection with?</p>
      <blockquote><p>"Having a connection with people is really important. A lot of people build tools without thinking about the people that are using them." - <a href="http://dangerouslyawesome.com/">Alex Hillman</a></p></blockquote>
      <p>Eventually, when you're bigger and more successful, you might have <em>anonymous customers</em> - people that find you on the web and click the buy button without any social interaction.</p>
      <p>But at the beginning, when you're deciding what to build, knowing a few potential customers by name proves something. It shows that you're involved in their community; that you've been listening to their problems. When you can<em> name</em> your first customers, the people you <em>know </em>need a solution, you can build your product with confidence.</p>
      <p>(When I say "know people by name", this includes the online personas of folks you've met through forums, Twitter and other online communities.)</p>
      <p>Recently, <a href="http://nathanbarry.com">Nathan Barry</a> gave me some good writing advice <em>that also applies to products</em>:</p>
      <blockquote><p>"To write good content that people care about, write to one person. A specific person. My book <em>Designing Web Applications</em> was written to my brother-in-law, Philip. I wrote what I knew would help him. If your writing is truly valuable to that one person, your ideas will be valuable to many."</p></blockquote>
      <p>Make sure your idea connects with a genuine human need. Before you get too excited about <em>building</em> something, think about <em>who</em> you're building it <em>for</em>.</p>
      <p>Cheers,<br />
      Justin Jackson<br />
      <a href="http://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p>
      
id: b0747fc0-83ab-4806-9e8b-746e9b055af5
