title: 'Ultimate validation'
author: Justin
_wpas_skip_3416642: '1'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>One of the first products I built was CRM software for non-profits. It was about 2001, and I was 21 years old. Every day after work I'd spend hours and hours customizing each screen and interaction.</p>
      <p>Nervously, I approached a local charity and asked if I could demo it for them. They were impressed! The Director invited me to come to their conference, and show it to other non-profits from across the country.</p>
      <p>Man I was excited. I burned the software onto 20 CDs (yes, for CD-ROMS), booked my plane ticket, and arrived right as the conference was starting. Glancing at the agenda, I noticed that my demo had an official time slot.</p>
      <p>I smiled: it felt like all my hard work had been validated.</p>
      <p><!--more--></p>
      <hr />
      <p>I ride my bike and I listen to podcasts. Lately on my ride to work I've been listening to <a href="http://gimletmedia.com/show/startup/">Startup</a>. There's a quote at the beginning of <a href="https://soundcloud.com/hearstartup/grow-big-or-go-home-season-2-2#t=3:24">episode 2</a>:</p>
      <blockquote><p>
        "YC is like the ultimate validation that you're on to something." - Lauren Kay, <a href="https://www.datingring.com/">Dating Ring</a>
      </p></blockquote>
      <p>If you're building a product, you want validation. You want to know your product has value - that you're on the right track.</p>
      <p>Even deeper, <em>you</em> want to be validated. <em>You</em> want to feel like you're not wasting your time. <em>You</em> want to feel like your work is valuable.</p>
      <p>Legitimizing your product <em>is</em> important, but aggressively seeking personal validation can be dangerous.</p>
      <p>I've seen it lead to two mistakes:</p>
      <ol>
      <li>We seek the wrong kind of validation</li>
      <li>We look for validation in the wrong places</li>
      </ol>
      <hr />
      <p>Back to my story.</p>
      <p>The time for my demo arrived. I waited anxiously in a conference room, expecting hundreds of people to attend.</p>
      <p>Only 20 came.</p>
      <p>Pushing my disappointment aside, I showed my software with as much enthusiasm as I could.</p>
      <p>Afterwards, a handful of people came up to say I was a great presenter. But when I asked if they were interested in buying a CD, they politely declined. Truthfully, they weren't really looking for a new solution. Their Excel sheets were working just fine. I had mistaken their initial enthusiasm as validation.</p>
      <p>I sold 5 copies.</p>
      <hr />
      <h3>How do you validate your idea?</h3>
      <p>Getting accepted into Y Combinator is not validation. Having your product hit #1 on Product Hunt is not validation. And, as I learned, having one enthusiastic beta user is not validation.</p>
      <p>If you're building a business, there's only one way to ensure that your product idea is good: <em>are people paying money for it</em>?</p>
      <blockquote><p>The only two people who can give you real feedback about your product are people who just purchased it and people who just canceled.</p>
      <footer>- <cite>Jason Fried ([as told to Dan Shipper](http://danshipper.com/heres-what-i-learned-hanging-out-with-jason-fried))</cite></footer>
      </blockquote>
      <p>Often, finding customers is the <em>last</em> step in our product development process. We think: "First I'll come up with the idea. Then I'll build it. And then I'll go find people who want to buy it."</p>
      <p>That process is backwards. As <a href="http://blog.asmartbear.com/customer-validation.html">Jason Cohen</a> says:</p>
      <blockquote><p>
        First, find ten people who say they’ll buy.
      </p></blockquote>
      <p>But finding folks who will pay for our idea is hard. It opens us to the possibility that <em>our idea isn't that good</em>. This scares us, so we go looking for affirmation in other places:</p>
      <ul>
      <li>we ask our friends if they like the idea</li>
      <li>we post our idea on startup forums</li>
      <li>we keep building our product in a cave, affirming that we're "making it better"</li>
      </ul>
      <p>Avoid these temptations! Before you go any further make sure you have a product that people want <em>so much</em>, they'll pay you for it upfront. Seriously.</p>
      <p>(BTW: I'm in the same boat as you. I want to skip over that last line. In fact, I have a product in mind that I need to do this for.)</p>
      <h3>After your first dollar</h3>
      <p>Finding people willing to pay you for your product? That's hard enough. Most people don't even make it to that stage.</p>
      <p>But that's just the first step.</p>
      <p><strong>The real question is: can you profitably acquire new customers every month?</strong></p>
      <p>After demoing my CRM software at the conference I realized I had problem. While I'd been able to convince 5 initial people to buy, finding new customers proved to be time consuming and expensive.</p>
      <p>Rob Walling articulates this dilemma <a href="http://productpeople.tv/2013/01/16/ep09-rob-walling-part1/">here</a>:</p>
      <blockquote><p>
        Building something people want is not enough. You have to be able to market it at a cost less than what the customer will pay you back over time.
      </p></blockquote>
      <p>To be successful, a product needs customers that are easy to reach, cheap to convert, and undemanding to support.</p>
      <p>In other words: it's no use building a product that sells for $100, costs you $200, and has few buyers.</p>
      <p>If your product is going to survive (and thrive) you'll require two things. First: an increasing number of customers that love your product so much they'll buy it <em>and</em> tell their friends. And second: a product that costs you less to run than you're bringing in in sales.</p>
      <p>The result is <em>profit</em>, and there is no sweeter validation.</p>
      <p>Cheers,<br />
      Justin Jackson<br />
      <a href="http://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p>
      <p>PS: After months away, I'm once again working on my book, <em>Marketing for Developers</em>. You can <a href="http://justinjackson.ca/marketingfordevelopers/">download a free chapter here</a>.</p>
      <p><em>Special thanks to <a href="http://ninjasandrobots.com/">Nate Kontny</a>, <a href="http://iamashley.co.uk/">Ashley Baxter</a>, <a href="https://pjrvs.com/">Paul Jarvis</a>, and <a href="http://studiofellow.com/">Jarrod Drysdale</a> for their feedback on this post.</em></p>
      <h3>Listen to this as a podcast:</h3>
      <p><iframe src="https://simplecast.fm/e/11271?style=light" width="100%" height="36px" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" seamless=""></iframe></p>
      
id: 21649523-4a82-4551-8bde-784ed198d370
