title: 'The last mile'
author: Justin
_wpas_skip_3416642: '1'
_zilla_featured_post: 'off'
_zilla_gallery_transition: fade
_zilla_gallery_timeout: '0'
_zilla_image_ids: 'false'
_zilla_quote_quote: ''
_zilla_quote_author: ''
_zilla_quote_image_darken: 'off'
_zilla_link_title: ''
_zilla_link_url: ''
_zilla_video_m4v: ''
_zilla_video_ogv: ''
_zilla_video_poster_url: ''
_zilla_video_embed_code: ''
_zilla_audio_mp3: ''
_zilla_audio_ogg: ''
_zilla_seo_title: ''
_zilla_seo_description: ''
_zilla_seo_keywords: ''
_zilla_seo_robots_index: index
_zilla_seo_robots_follow: follow
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>The last mile is always the hardest.</p>
      <p>I'm soaked from the rain. My tires spit with every spin, speckling my face with mud.</p>
      <p>I turn right on 43rd, and start pedalling up the hill.</p>
      <p>And it gets steeper. Steeper than I like. Cranks groan with every push, and so do my knees. I'm tired.</p>
      <p><!--more--></p>
      <p>This morning's ride wasn't like this. It was easy. Fast. Effortless. Coasting down the hill like a king; ready to command and conquer.</p>
      <p>But now I'm just a man on stupid bike getting passed by cars.</p>
      <p>There's no momentum going up this damned hill. No coasting. With every thrust the incline gets steeper. Harder and harder.</p>
      <blockquote><p>I could stop.</p></blockquote>
      <p>That's a scary thought. I could just pull over, and rest. But if I sit, I don't get home. Home's my goal. That's why I'm pushing up this hill. I want to get home tonight.</p>
      <p>The dark is my deadline. I don't want to be out here pedalling after the sun goes down. The deadline drives me forward.</p>
      <p>It feels like eternity. But I finally get to my turn. Porch light's on.</p>
      <p>I climbed that hill. It feels good now. I'm home.</p>
      <hr />
      <p>Almost every project is enthralling at the beginning, and a grind at the end.</p>
      <p>The last mile is the hardest, but it's also the most important. It's where you <em>finish</em>. Wrap it up. Ship it.</p>
      <p>I always forget how important deadlines are. When I bike home from my office, my deadline is to be home <em>before</em> supper. It keeps me on track: no side streets or diversions - I've got to get home.</p>
      <p>Projects need deadlines. When you don't have a deadline it's like riding around aimlessly; you're covering distance but not getting anywhere.</p>
      <p>Set a deadline. Point yourself up that hill. Travel that last mile. It's a grind, but you can do it.</p>
      <p>It's the hardest part, but home is calling your name.</p>
      <p>Cheers,<br />
      Justin Jackson<br />
      <a href="http://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p>
      <p>PS: I'm launching <a href="http://justinjackson.ca/marketingfordevelopers">the book I've been writing</a> on October 15th.</p>
      
id: 519cd140-ac44-4bc8-9b12-703981539c4f
