title: 'Who are you stealing from?'
author: Justin
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>If you're building a product, you should be able to answer this question:</p>
      <blockquote><p>"What product is <em>your product</em> stealing time and attention from?"</p></blockquote>
      <p>For example:</p>
      <ul>
      <li>When Uber launched, they stole customers from the taxi industry.</li>
      <li>When the iPhone launched, Apple took customers from Kodak and the film industry.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>We only have so much time and attention. Most people aren't going to use Instagram <em>and</em> Snapchat <em>and </em>Vine. Who's going to carry an iPhone <em>and </em>a Samsung? We're going to choose just one.</p>
      <p>Teams are the same. They won't use Slack <em>and </em>Hipchat <em>and </em>Campfire. They'll make a decision. They'll pick one.</p>
      <p>You might not have thought about this side of running a business. When <a href="http://el2.convertkit-mail.com/c/preview/3ydpyg/aHR0cDovL3d3dy53aGVuY29mZmVlYW5ka2FsZWNvbXBldGUuY29tLz91dG1fc291cmNlPXBvZGNhc3QmdXRtX21lZGl1bT1saW5rJnV0bV9jYW1wYWlnbj1tZWdhbWFrZXI=" target="_blank">Alan Klement</a> introduced this idea to me, of <em>stealing customers</em>, it took me aback.</p>
      <p>But that's what business is: it's competition. When customers <em>start </em>using one product they <em>stop</em> using another one (just ask Blackberry).</p>
      <p>You might say:</p>
      <blockquote><p>"Well, my idea is brand new. Nobody is doing it. I'm carving out a new market."</p></blockquote>
      <p>But people only have so many resources. Whatever time, attention, and money they spend on <em>your</em> product they're going to have to take away from something else.</p>
      <h3>What does this mean for you?</h3>
      <p>Your product has to make a customer's life significantly better than it is right now.</p>
      <p>People want to make progress. If you can show them how your product helps them move forward, you can earn their business.</p>
      <p>Steve Jobs was an expert at observing people's behavior, and finding the gaps. <a href="http://content.time.com/time/specials/packages/article/0,28804,2101745_2102136_2102227,00.html" target="_blank">Here's a great example</a>:</p>
      <blockquote><p>"You know, everybody has a cell phone, but I don't know one person who likes their cell phone. I want to make a phone that people love."</p></blockquote>
      <p>When Steve introduced the iPhone, he was able to meet a need that folks had <em>felt</em> but weren't yet able to <em>articulate</em>. Getting an iPhone felt like a huge step forward. So people switched. They left their Blackberries behind.</p>
      <p>Look at where people are struggling right now. They're unsatisfied with their current solution. They're ready to switch.</p>
      <p>What could <strong>you</strong> build that would help them make progress?</p>
      <p>Cheers,<br />
      Justin Jackson<br />
      <a href="http://el2.convertkit-mail.com/c/preview/q1opyg/aHR0cHM6Ly90d2l0dGVyLmNvbS9taWp1c3Rpbg==" target="_blank">@mijustin</a></p>
      <p><em>PS: if you're a software developer looking to learn marketing I'm re-launching <a href="http://el2.convertkit-mail.com/c/preview/x1zvjk/aHR0cDovL2Rldm1hcmtldGluZy54eXo=" target="_blank">devmarketing.xyz</a> on Oct. 15!</em></p>
      <p><em>PPS: a lot of these thoughts come from my recent chat with <a href="http://el2.convertkit-mail.com/c/preview/e1pnyl/aHR0cDovL3d3dy53aGVuY29mZmVlYW5ka2FsZWNvbXBldGUuY29tLz91dG1fc291cmNlPXBvZGNhc3QmdXRtX21lZGl1bT1saW5rJnV0bV9jYW1wYWlnbj1tZWdhbWFrZXI=" target="_blank">Alan Klement</a>. You can <a href="http://el2.convertkit-mail.com/c/preview/41xkjn/aHR0cHM6Ly9tZWdhbWFrZXIuc2ltcGxlY2FzdC5mbS9lcGlzb2Rlcy80ODgyNC0wMzgtd2hhdC1tb3RpdmF0ZXMtcGVvcGxlLXRvLWJ1eQ==" target="_blank">listen to it here</a>.</em></p>
      
id: 9b947682-f40b-496f-a127-439a04c72409
