title: 'Get out of your creative rut'
article_content:
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/justin-jackson-creative-rut.jpg
    size: md
    brutalized: true
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>These past two weeks have been awful.</p><p>It feels like my creative energy has been stamped out.</p><p>One day I woke up and I could feel it: I was in a rut.</p><p>It scared me.</p><p>I earn my living off my imagination. And when ideas don''t come, I get desperate.</p><blockquote><p>"C''mon brain! Give me something!"</p></blockquote><p>Usually, I have the opposite problem. Ideas come pouring out of me like Niagara Falls. But this time, I held&nbsp;out my cup hoping for a drop of inspiration; but none came.</p><p><strong>Have you felt like this?</strong> Your motivation to work, create, and make goes away? (If yes, <a href="http://twitter.com/home?status=%40mijustin%20I%E2%80%99ve%20definitely%20been%20in%20a%20creative%20rut%20before.">tell me about it here</a>)</p><p>Gradually, over the last few days, I''ve been able to regain my momentum.</p><p>Here are a few of the things that helped me:</p><h3>Get uncomfortable</h3><p>When we''re feeling down, our inclination is to hibernate. We want to get under some warm blankets, eat cereal, and mope. Or, we seek solace&nbsp;from sites like Twitter, Facebook, and YouTube.</p><p>Don''t seek comfort. You need to give yourself a jolt of the unfamiliar.</p><p>I forced myself to drive 45 minutes to a neighboring town to watch a documentary.</p><p>I knew it would be good for me because:</p><ul><li>During the drive, I''d have a long uninterrupted time to think.</li><li>The film would expose me to new ideas.</li><li>I''d meet new people</li></ul><p>The quickest way to get out of a creative rut is to make yourself uncomfortable. This means:</p><ul><li>Put yourself in new, unfamiliar, situations</li><li>Spend time with people you don''t normally hang out with.</li><li>Take risks. Try new things. Do something unconventional.</li></ul><p>Discomfort is like jumper cables for a dead creative battery.</p><h3><b>Help someone else</b></h3><p>Lacking motivation, we turn inward. We try to nurture our creative soul.</p><p>But self-focus isn''t the answer; outward focus is.</p><p>My friend Dave needed a website. I can make websites.</p><p>Normally I don''t have time to do projects like this for friends. I''m too focused on my own stuff.</p><p>However, because of my lack of inspiration, I didn''t have any current projects.</p><p>So I helped Dave build a simple static site for his business.</p><p>We spent the morning together. I could tell that launching this website represented significant progress for Dave and his new business. Seeing that gave me energy.</p><p>Helping others renews your spirit.</p><h3>Get outside</h3><p>Too often, when I''m in a rut, I''ll force myself to stay at my desk. "I''m not going anywhere until I accomplish something," I''ll say.</p><p>It''s like trying to squeeze water from a rock.</p><p>Leave your desk. Go outside. Take a walk. Lay on the grass. Sit by a river. Breathe.</p><p>I try to practice a light form of meditation, where I won''t focus on anything particular, and I''ll just focus on breathing. I''ll start with ten breaths: in slowly, and out slowly.</p><p>Your brain isn''t your slave; you need to let it roam.</p><h3><b>Re-focus on your destination</b></h3><p>Once I felt my creative energy returning, I took out a piece of paper, and drew something like this:</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/re-focus-on-your-destination.png
    size: md
    brutalized: true
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>On one side I wrote: "Here''s where I am now."</p><p>On the other side, I put: "This is where I want to be." For me, this destination represents a&nbsp;specific revenue goal for my business.</p><p>In the middle, I asked: "What are three things I need to do to get there?</p><p>Re-centering on the gap between where I am, and where I want to be, was motivating. It also helped me to come up with specific actions I could take.</p><p>When you''re in a rut, action creates momentum.</p><h3><b>Ask these two questions before you go to bed</b></h3><p>With renewed momentum, I was able to start tracking my progress.</p><p>The most efficient way I''ve found for doing this is to ask these questions each night:</p><ol><li>What did I accomplish today?</li><li>What am I going to do tomorrow?</li></ol><p>Tracking each day''s accomplishments is a visual reminder of your velocity. After I''ve listed them out, I''ll go back over them and mark an "X" or a checkmark.&nbsp;An "X" is for anything that doesn''t help me move towards my goal. The checkmarks are actions that are helping me make progress.</p><p>Asking yourself "What am I going to do tomorrow" creates the intention for your next day. What three big things do you want to get done? Now, when you wake up, you won''t ask: "What should I do today?" You''ll already know.</p><h3>Healthy habits</h3><p>My friend Corey reminded me about the importance of habits.</p><p>When we feel down, we want to drink beer, stay up late and eat junk food; this just makes you feel worse. You can''t control what''s going on in the world, but you can go to bed on time, eat your veggies, and go for a run.</p><p>There''s also professional habits. Start work at a reasonable hour. Do your creative work in the morning. Answer email in the afternoon. Write tests for your code. Keep your desk clean. Backup your hard drive.</p><p>Double down on healthy habits. They’ll sustain you when you’re in a rough patch.</p><p><em>I hope these ideas have been helpful for you. These originated as a discussion thread in <a href="https://megamaker.co/club">MegaMaker</a>. Thanks to all the folks there who contributed. This post is&nbsp;also available as a <a href="https://podcast.megamaker.co/episodes/043-how-do-you-get-out-of-a-creative-rut">podcast episode here</a>:</em></p>'
  -
    type: html_embed
    embed_code: '<iframe src=''https://share.transistor.fm/e/123e5a90'' width=''100%'' height=''180'' frameborder=''0'' scrolling=''no'' seamless=''true'' style=''width:100%; height:180px;''></iframe>'
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Cheers,<br>Justin Jackson<br><a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p>'
  -
    type: newsletter
author: Justin
id: a4837704-dd2e-40cf-a54a-a3bdf162e30c
