title: 'Fear of launch'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>As product people, we don''t want to create something that''s just <em>good</em>. We want it to <em>resonate</em> with people.</p><p>When I launch something new, my biggest fear is that people <strong>won''t like it, won''t care, or won''t show up.</strong></p><p>Additionally, a lot of people I know also&nbsp;struggle to <em>promote </em>the things they''ve made.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/comic-creative-fear.png
    size: md
    brutalized: true
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>These two pain points are related. If you''re not confident that people will like what you''ve made, it''s hard to promote it.</p><p><em>No one wants to send out invitations, and have zero people show up for their party.</em></p><h3>How can you get over this fear?</h3><p>You don''t.</p><p>You never <em>truly </em>get over the fear of launching something no one wants.</p><p>But you can <em>reduce</em> it. There''s a feedback loop you can go through that will give you the confidence you need. It''s a system for discovering&nbsp;products&nbsp;people&nbsp;<em>want</em>.</p><p>It looks like this:</p><ol><li>Research your audience. Embed yourself in their community. Hang out every day. Listen.</li><li>Observe the topics, pain points, and desires that come up over and over again. Make a list.</li><li>Prioritize the list. Which topics do you think are most important to this group?</li><li>Create something <strong>small</strong> that solves your audience''s #1 issue.</li><li>Launch it. Observe the reaction. Gather feedback.</li><li>Iterate by making something a bit <strong>bigger</strong>. Try charging a bit of money for it. How do people respond? How hard is it to find customers?</li><li>Keep repeating this cycle until you''re sure you''ve found a <strong>problem </strong>that people <em>really </em>care about and a <strong>solution</strong> that they''ll pay for.</li></ol><p>I realize that this might seem simplistic. But when you&nbsp;show&nbsp;up every day, you''ll find&nbsp;opportunities to help people in meaningful ways.</p><p>For example, my friend Jarrod is a designer and hangs out with other designers. His friends were having a hard time communicating their value to clients. So&nbsp;Jarrod decided to write <a href="https://thetinydesigner.com/?utm_source=newsletter&amp;utm_medium=link&amp;utm_campaign=justinjackson">The Tiny Designer</a>.</p><h3>Learning to promote your projects</h3><p>Once you''ve created a solution that people need, you won''t&nbsp;feel like a huckster. You’re helping folks solve their problems&nbsp;(and that''s worth doing).</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/products-that-win.png
    size: md
    brutalized: true
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Making something people&nbsp;<em>want</em>&nbsp;is no good if they never hear about it.</p><h2>Don''t fear the launch!</h2><p>Working in public will help alleviate your launch anxiety. When you show up, and share your process, you''ll see if your work is resonating.</p><p>For example, my friends Steve Schoger and Adam Wathan shared tips like this for a year before their launch:</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/steve-schoger-twitter-tips.png
    size: md
    brutalized: true
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Seeing hundreds of people interact with their tweets gave them the confidence that they were on the right track.</p><p>You don''t need thousands of Twitter followers to do this! Here are other places you can share your work:</p><ul><li>On forums</li><li>In Slack groups</li><li>On Reddit, Hacker News, Indie Hackers</li><li><a href="https://justinjackson.ca/livestreaming">Livestream</a>&nbsp;your work</li><li>Blogging</li><li>In presentations or conference talks</li></ul><p>These should be blatant promotions. The brilliance of Steve and Adam''s "tweet tips" is that they''re practical and helpful.</p><p>I hope this helps,<br>Justin Jackson<br><a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p>'
  -
    type: newsletter
seo:
  description: 'When you launch something new, your biggest fear is that people won''t like it, won''t care, or won''t show up.'
  image: /assets/content/comic-creative-fear.png
author: Justin
_zilla_featured_post: 'off'
_zilla_gallery_transition: fade
_zilla_gallery_timeout: '0'
_zilla_image_ids: 'false'
_zilla_quote_image_darken: 'off'
_zilla_seo_robots_index: index
_zilla_seo_robots_follow: follow
_wpas_skip_3416642: '1'
id: fd04585a-01de-4bf3-ba6c-8864ea87dc79
