title: 'Don''t swim against the current'
author: Justin
_zilla_featured_post: 'off'
_zilla_gallery_transition: fade
_zilla_gallery_timeout: '0'
_zilla_image_ids: 'false'
_zilla_quote_quote: ''
_zilla_quote_author: ''
_zilla_quote_image_darken: 'off'
_zilla_link_title: ''
_zilla_link_url: ''
_zilla_video_m4v: ''
_zilla_video_ogv: ''
_zilla_video_poster_url: ''
_zilla_video_embed_code: ''
_zilla_audio_mp3: ''
_zilla_audio_ogg: ''
_zilla_seo_title: ''
_zilla_seo_description: ''
_zilla_seo_keywords: ''
_zilla_seo_robots_index: index
_zilla_seo_robots_follow: follow
_wpas_skip_3416642: '1'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <blockquote><p>[In business] you shouldn’t swim upstream. <strong>Don’t try to change people’s behavior</strong>.</p>
      <footer>– <cite><a href="http://www.iwillteachyoutoberich.com/about/about-ramit/">Ramit</a></cite></footer>
      </blockquote>
      <p>The biggest temptation in business is to try to change the way people think.</p>
      <p>I learned this lesson the hard way when I owned a retail store. One day stumbled on <a href="http://subscribe.adbusters.org/products/blackspot">Blackspot sneakers</a>. These hit me in an ideological sweet spot: the shoes were sustainably made, and biodegradable!</p>
      <p>Inspired, I decided to order hundreds of pairs and change the way my customers thought about shoes.</p>
      <p>The shoes came. I set up a big display highlighting their virtues; and invited them to join the "anti-Nike" movement.</p>
      <p>No one bought any.</p>
      <p>I didn't sell a single pair.</p>
      <hr />
      <p>It's very difficult to fight the tide. This doesn't mean you can't have values, or stand for something, it just means you have to give people what they want <strong>first</strong>.</p>
      
id: aad362a4-3885-4e15-bb84-cd2cf6c3bfaf
