title: 'Is the market for self-published books saturated?'
author: Justin
_zilla_featured_post: 'off'
_zilla_gallery_transition: fade
_zilla_gallery_timeout: '0'
_zilla_image_ids: 'false'
_zilla_quote_quote: ''
_zilla_quote_author: ''
_zilla_quote_image_darken: 'off'
_zilla_link_title: ''
_zilla_link_url: ''
_zilla_video_m4v: ''
_zilla_video_ogv: ''
_zilla_video_poster_url: ''
_zilla_video_embed_code: ''
_zilla_audio_mp3: ''
_zilla_audio_ogg: ''
_zilla_seo_title: ''
_zilla_seo_description: ''
_zilla_seo_keywords: ''
_zilla_seo_robots_index: index
_zilla_seo_robots_follow: follow
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p><a href="https://twitter.com/chrisguillebeau">Chris Guillebeau</a> just published <a href="http://chrisguillebeau.com/new-new-economy/">a blog post about online publishing</a>. It starts out with a confession of sorts:</p>
      <blockquote><p>For the past eight years I’ve made a good living through online publishing. But I don’t think the instructions are as timeless as I thought they were at the time. If, today, you do exactly what I said back then, I’m not entirely sure that success will follow.</p></blockquote>
      <p>One of his key points is that the market has become saturated:</p>
      <blockquote><p>What happens when large numbers of people all pursue the same goal? They all set out to “build a following” and “create platform” for themselves. They all write ebooks. They all create online courses, some more helpful than others.</p></blockquote>
      <p>He continues this line of thinking with a direct warning to new, aspiring self-published authors:</p>
      <blockquote><p>These days, it’s <em>much</em> harder for most people to reap a substantial profit on a new digital product.</p></blockquote>
      <p>Wow.</p>
      <p>In light of that post, I thought it'd be interesting to revisit this section from <a href="http://justinjackson.ca/self-publishing-hangout/">the conversation</a> Sacha, Nathan, Paul and I had in 2013:</p>
      <p>[soundcloud url="https://api.soundcloud.com/tracks/245621137" params="color=ff5500&amp;auto_play=false&amp;hide_related=false&amp;show_comments=true&amp;show_user=true&amp;show_reposts=false" width="100%" height="166" iframe="true" /]</p>
      <p>What do you think? Is online publishing saturated? I'd love to hear your thoughts in the comments.</p>
      
id: 16a62fee-43eb-430d-b664-ab13ee4f8b70
