title: 'We all want progress'
author: Justin
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p><em>People want to make progress in their lives.</em></p>
      <p>Every single one of us wants a better life. We're all striving for more.</p>
      <p>For many, a better life means having a warm meal, and maybe a roof over their head.</p>
      <p>Others dream of building their own business. Some folks want to travel the world.</p>
      <p><strong>This yearning for a better tomorrow is what drives our behavior.</strong> It gives us ambition; it pushes us to overcome obstacles.</p>
      <p>But eventually, many of us will run into a wall we can't climb over.</p>
      <p>We stop making progress.</p>
      <p>The longer we struggle without progress, the more frustration we feel.</p>
      <p class="p1">And if you stay stuck too long, your frustration turns into desperation.</p>
      <p class="p1"><strong>Desperate people do not make good decisions.</strong></p>
      <p class="p1">Christy Matta, reporting for <a href="http://psychcentral.com/blog/archives/2013/05/06/our-brain-on-stress-forgetful-emotional/">PsychCentral</a>, writes:</p>
      <blockquote>
      <p class="p1">With increasing stress, our brains are wired to discount factual information and to rely heavily on emotional experiences.</p>
      </blockquote>
      <hr />
      <p class="p1">Sometimes, people come together to tackle a common struggle.</p>
      <p class="p1">Alcoholics Anonymous is a positive example of how a group can help its members achieve a better life.</p>
      <p class="p1">Many entrepreneurs join a Chamber of Commerce, or a mastermind, for similar reasons: to make progress in collaboration with others.</p>
      <p class="p1">But the same ills that affect the individual can also impact a community.</p>
      <p class="p1">When progress is no longer being made, the common struggle gives way to shared frustration.</p>
      <p class="p1">And if they stay stuck too long, their frustration turns into desperation.</p>
      <p class="p1">Desperate communities do not make good decisions.</p>
      <hr />
      <p class="p1">The cure for desperation is deliverance.</p>
      <p class="p1">Beyond mere hope, people need help overcoming the obstacles in their lives.</p>
      <p class="p1">They need a bridge: a way of getting back on the path of progress.</p>
      <hr />
      <p class="p1">Looking at society through this lens, a few things become clear:</p>
      <ol>
      <li class="p1">Society is made up of individuals who are trying to make progress in their lives.</li>
      <li class="p1">The best way to understand people who aren't like you is to acknowledge the obstacles they face.</li>
      <li class="p1">The frustration a group feels is a multiple of how long they've struggled to make progress.</li>
      <li class="p1">Left unabated, an individual's frustration will turn to desperation.</li>
      <li class="p1">Desperation causes humans to act impulsively.</li>
      <li class="p1">Impulsive behavior is often destructive.</li>
      </ol>
      <p>As Glenn Greenwald wrote in <a href="https://theintercept.com/2016/11/09/democrats-trump-and-the-ongoing-dangerous-refusal-to-learn-the-lesson-of-brexit/">The Intercept</a>:</p>
      <blockquote><p>The more economic suffering people endure, the angrier and more bitter they get, the easier it is to direct their anger to scapegoats.</p></blockquote>
      <p>If we want to avoid human chaos, we need to be less insular. We can't focus on making progress in <em>our</em> lives at the expense of others.</p>
      <p>This is especially true for those of us who work in technology. There are consequences to automating tasks that previously provided jobs (and progress) for millions of people.</p>
      <p>https://twitter.com/griph/status/796539192721506304</p>
      <p>The tech culture has wrongly assumed that <em>progress</em> means <em>innovation</em>. People don't care about faster processors, smarter algorithms, or automated machines.</p>
      <p>They just want a better life.</p>
      
id: d18bb035-eaf2-4008-8f93-7ea9a1c14b55
