title: 'Why you need a co-founder'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>You''ve heard of Walt Disney, the affable showman who founded The Walt Disney Company. He''s an American icon with a great legacy.</p><p>You may not have heard of his older brother, Roy.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/walt-disney-and-his-brother-roy.png
    size: md
    brutalized: true
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>Which is a shame, because Roy was the linchpin of Disney's success. It's likely that without Roy, none of Disney's achievements would have happened.</p><p>Most folks don't realize that the Walt Disney Company was co-founded by <em>both</em> brothers: Walt <em>and</em> Roy. They were perfect sidekicks:</p><ul><li>Walt was imaginative, creative, and loved the spotlight.<br></li><li>Roy was a hard-nosed operations person, and preferred working in the background.<br></li></ul><p>Walt Disney himself once said: "My brother Roy runs this company. I just piddle around."</p><p>Their company survived, and thrived, because it leveraged the strengths of each brother. Walt could dream up fantastic films, and elaborate theme parks. Roy had the business and financial acumen to make these dreams a reality. Walt was an artist. Roy was a numbers guy.</p><p>When Walt ran out of money while making <em>Snow White</em>, Roy secured more.<sup><a href="#fn-1147-2">1</a></sup></p><p>When Walt dreamed up Disneyworld, Roy labored to get it built, and did so without incurring any debt.<sup><a href="#fn-1147-1">2</a></sup></p><blockquote><p>
        "The key to the Walt Disney Company was the partnership of Walt and Roy. Walt knew he couldn’t do what Roy could do, and Roy knew he couldn’t do what Walt could do. So they submitted to each other’s area of expertise and worked together, ultimately for the benefit of the ideas and the benefit of their audience." - Phil Vischer <sup><a href="#fn-1147-3">3</a></sup>
      </p></blockquote><hr><p>Right now, around the world, there are millions of people trying to bring new ideas to life.</p><p>But they're doing it all alone.</p><p>Creatives are often solitary. We like the isolation because it allows us to focus.</p><p>But ultimately, it's hard to show up every day, by yourself. When there's no one to cheer you on, and no one to be accountable to, it's easier to just give up.</p><hr><p>Some of the most successful people in business, design and code have partners:</p><ul><li>Jason Fried and DHH built Basecamp.<br></li><li>Larry and Sergey co-founded Google.<br></li><li>Hiten Shah and Neil Patel started Crazy Egg together.<br></li><li>Jobs and Wozniak partnered on Apple.<br></li><li>Ben &amp; Jerry make ice cream together.<br></li><li>Merlin Mann and Dan Benjamin have co-hosted their podcast for years.<br></li></ul><p>Jason Cohen says:</p><blockquote><p>"Building a business is hard, don't make it harder than it needs to be!"</p></blockquote><p>Without Roy, Walt would have never succeeded with the Disney Company. It would have been too hard to get it off the ground. Alone, it couldn't fly.</p><p>In most cases, especially at the beginning, two heads are better than one.</p><p>Yes, starting a partnership presents some risks. But wouldn't it be better to find a partner, and give your project a chance, rather than let it die on the vine?</p><p>For years, I tried building projects on my own. But I had to limit myself, because I didn't have the technical expertise to bring all my ideas to life.</p>
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/jon-buda-justin-jackson-portland-xoxo.jpeg
    size: md
    brutalized: true
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Then I met Jon Buda at XOXO festival. Over the years, we became friends. We collaborated on a few projects. And then, we decided to work together on <a href="https://transistor.fm/?via=justin">Transistor</a>&nbsp;(a podcast hosting and analytics platform).</p><p>Jon is a gifted software developer. He has a good eye for design.</p><p>My expertise is in customer research,&nbsp;marketing, and product development.</p><p>Combined, we''ve been able to build Transistor into something much greater than we could have achieved on our own.</p><p><br></p>'
  -
    type: newsletter
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p><b>Footnotes:</b></p><ol><li>
      <a href="http://www.justdisney.com/Features/snow_white/">Just Disney: Snow White</a>&nbsp;<a href="#fnref-1147-2">↩</a>
      </li><li>
      <a href="http://www.mouseplanet.com/9562/The_Forgotten_Brother_Who_Built_a_Magic_Kingdom">The Forgotten Brother who Built the Magic Kingdom</a>&nbsp;<a href="#fnref-1147-1">↩</a>
      </li><li>
      <a href="http://www.cbn.com/spirituallife/churchandministry/Vischer_Excerpt0705.aspx">Me, Myself, and Bob</a>&nbsp;<a href="#fnref-1147-3">↩</a>
      </li></ol><p>This articled was originally published on March 14th, 2015. It's been updated since then.</p>
author: Justin
_wpas_skip_3416642: '1'
id: 7f8711eb-6afb-4c5c-bb03-b739bbef0f0f
