title: 'How to make money from your tiny podcast'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>The general consensus right now is that if your show doesn't have 30,000 - 50,000 downloads per month, you can't get any sponsor to look at you seriously. To really get the big advertisers (MailChimp, Squarespace) you need 50,000 downloads per episode.</p><p>If you're looking to earn an income from a podcast with smaller download numbers, here's what's worked for me.</p><p><em><strong>Background</strong> -- my podcasts (<a href="http://megamaker.co/">MegaMaker</a>, <a href="http://productpeople.tv/">Product People</a>) focus on a very specific niche. They're for software developers, designers, and other makers who want to launch their own software products.</em></p><h3>How many of my listeners might support my show?</h3><blockquote><p>What percentage of my listeners might support the show?&nbsp;Is it 3%, 5%, 10%?</p></blockquote><p>One way jack-ass marketers (like me) assess&nbsp;percentages is by asking: "how much purchasing intent does the initial group have?"</p><p>For example, <a href="https://justinjackson.ca/jolt/">the book</a> I just released had an email list where people get notified about the launch. Here's what the math looks like:</p><p><code>1,359 people on the launch list</code><br>
      <code>663 of those people bought</code><br>
      <code>= 49% conversion rate</code></p><p>Now, let's compare that conversion rate to my overall list:</p><p><code>12,703 people on my mailing list</code><br>
      <code>674 of those people bought</code><br>
      <code>= 5% conversion rate</code></p><p>So 5% of my big list bought. But when I narrow it down to the launch list, the % is much higher (49%).</p><p>The podcaster's sales funnel looks like this:</p>
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/podcast-sales-funnel.png
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <h3>"Asking listeners for money feels yucky."</h3><blockquote><p>I'm worried about damaging the goodwill I've built up with my audience. If I ask them for their support, won't I lose their trust?</p></blockquote><p>Here's a quick example: I recently got into <strong>Iron Maiden</strong>. I wasn't allowed to listen to them in the '80s, but now as a 30-something year old man, I was curious. At first, I just listened on Spotify for free. Then I started buying their albums on iTunes. Then I ordered t-shirts.</p><p>I'd spent probably $100 on Maiden stuff when I got an email from Iron Maiden <strong>asking me to pay $117.86 for concert tickets</strong>.</p><p>Iron Maiden isn't worried about damaging their goodwill when they email me. <strong>They know they've earned my trust.</strong> Even though $117.86 is a ridiculous amount to pay, I did it gladly.</p><p><em>Sometimes as creatives, we're too worried about the trolls.</em> For sure there were a few metal heads that said: "Maiden sucks! I'd never pay that kind of money for a show." But for every one of them, there were <strong>thousands</strong> of people that were like: "YES! I'll pay anything!"</p><h3>In what ways can a small podcast earn revenue?</h3><p>Here are ideas I've tried:</p><ul><li><strong>Digital products</strong>: for me, this has been the winner. I write books that my audience is interested in and sell those directly to them. My two most recent are <a href="http://devmarketing.xyz/">Marketing for Developers</a> and <a href="https://justinjackson.ca/jolt">Jolt</a>. Since I've gone independent in November, about 60%-70% of my income has come from books our courses I've created. <em>Conclusion:</em> if your podcast lends towards <em>teaching</em> this is a great option.</li><li><strong>Membership</strong>: it's tricky to run an online community, but so far the benefits have outweighed the challenges. <a href="http://productpeople.club/">Here's the membership site for Product People</a>. The most challenging part is finding the right platform.&nbsp;Currently, I've settled on <a href="https://discourse.org">Discourse</a> (hosted on <a href="https://m.do.co/c/d12c8c2c375a">Digital Ocean</a>) plus Slack. <em>Conclusion:</em> nice way to build recurring revenue into your podcast. I highly recommend selling annual subscriptions instead of monthly.</li><li><strong>Crowdfunding</strong>: I ran <a href="http://sponsor.megamaker.co/">my own campaign</a> using a WordPress plugin called <a href="http://ignitiondeck.com/id/">Ignition Deck</a>. The idea was that listeners could support future topics by sponsoring their favorite idea. <em>Conclusion:</em>I wouldn't do this one again personally. I achieved all my goals, but most of the support came from a single advertiser who would have supported regardless. It was also really difficult to run the campaign + produce the shows.</li><li><strong>Micro-sponsorships</strong>: this was a precursor to the crowdfunding. The idea here was to allow people to sponsor <a href="http://megamaker.co/sponsor/">for as little as $99</a>. This worked well, but you really have to push it to get people to sponsor. My best week was when I was doing a specific story arc (the infamous burrito episode) - over $1,089 in sponsorships. <em>Conclusion:</em> you really have to be aggressive to get <strong>any</strong> ad money. But, there are listeners who want to promote their projects, and would be willing to spend $99 to $199. I might try this approach again.</li><li><strong>Physical products</strong>: using Printful + WooCommerce, I run an online <a href="http://store.megamaker.co/">MegaMaker store</a>. Generally, I'm making about $5 profit per item (that's about the same as you'd get from Cotton Bureau). <em>Conclusion:</em> It's not a good way to make money.  However, it's been awesome for fans.</li></ul><p>There are other models I've seen work as well:</p><ul><li><strong>Patreon</strong>: Drew, at the <a href="http://www.sleepwithmepodcast.com/">Sleep with Me podcast</a>,&nbsp;has over 1,739 people supporting him <a href="https://www.patreon.com/sleepwithme">on Patreon</a>. He's currently earning about $6,000 per month. Getting people to donate monthly can be challenging, but for the right podcast, it makes sense.&nbsp;<em>Conclusion:</em> if your podcast&nbsp;provides consistent, recurring, value, this is a great option.</li><li><strong>One campaign a year</strong>:&nbsp;NPR and other public broadcasters will often do one big fundraising campaign per year. I've also seen smaller shows (like Merlin Mann and John Roderick) do a "once a year t-shirt sale."&nbsp;<em>Conclusion:&nbsp;</em>limiting fundraising to one particular segment of time really helps focus on the need. With a "once a year t-shirt sale" you're also adding urgency to the mix.</li></ul><p>Have you seen anything else that's worked? <a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin">Let me know on Twitter</a>.</p><p>Cheers,<br>
      Justin Jackson</p>
  -
    type: newsletter
author: Justin
id: b9aaa9af-aa4b-4b06-a19c-cf71d7a70fce
