title: 'Why most product ideas aren''t that good'
author: Justin
seo:
  description: "It's difficult to create a product that\_provides customers\_with a real benefit. Most new products ideas aren't that good."
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>When you're building software, the question you need to ask is:</p>
      <blockquote><p>"How does this tool make people more awesome?"</p></blockquote>
      <p>In practice, it's difficult to create a product that provides customers with a real benefit. Often, product people will BS their rationale:</p>
      <blockquote><p>"Will this help people? Oh yeah, for sure!"</p></blockquote>
      <p>In reality, most new products ideas aren't that good because they don't actually give users progress in their lives.</p>
      <p>There's only one way to find a good product idea: observe real people, and recognize the real struggles they face.</p>
      <p>And the truth is, whoever is most embedded in a given community is likely going to win.</p>
      <p>If you and I both make an app for lawyers, but you love hanging out with them more than I do, it's more likely you'll notice where they need help.</p>
      <p>Or, if you're a woman who wears pantyhose daily, you're more likely to invent Spanx than a man who wears jeans. Sarah Blakely noticed women struggling with pantyhose that didn't fit. She's a billionaire because she helped those women overcome that obstacle.</p>
      <h3>Where should you start?</h3>
      <p>Go to work every day and ask:</p>
      <blockquote><p>"How can I make my boss' life easier?"</p></blockquote>
      <p>Solving the boss' problems is a particularly fertile training ground for building software because it's "the boss" who'll be paying for it!</p>
      <p>(Freelancing? Replace the word "boss" with "client")</p>
      <style>.embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; } .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }</style>
      <div class="embed-container"><iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed//inh3g8Eo7Vc?rel=0" width="300" height="150" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="allowfullscreen"></iframe></div>
      <h3 style="margin-top: 40px;">A framework for finding product ideas</h3>
      <p>Spend time hanging out with the people you'd like to help! As you observe them, ask yourself these questions:</p>
      <ol>
      <li>Where are they now?</li>
      <li>Where do they want to go?</li>
      <li>What's standing in their way?</li>
      <li>How could you help them overcome that obstacle?</li>
      </ol>
      <h3>Here's an example:</h3>
      <p>Your boss comes in at 6 am every Monday so they can run reports for the weekly executive meeting.</p>
      <p><strong>What's their dream of a better life? </strong>To be able to sleep in on Monday, and arrive at 9 am instead.</p>
      <p><strong>What obstacles stand in their way? </strong>The reports currently need to be run manually.</p>
      <p><strong>How can you help? </strong>Write an automated script that runs those reports for them!</p>
      <p>Every person in the world has issues like this in their life. They're doing things a certain way, and they can't figure out how to make it better.</p>
      <p>Our job, as product people, is to discern those pain points, and have the creativity to solve them.</p>
      <p>Cheers,<br />
      Justin Jackson</p>
      <p>PS: this is the framework I've used to set up <a href="https://tinymarketingwins.com">Tiny Marketing Wins</a>. TMW is a service that sends you a new marketing tactic every week. It helps members make constant progress in building a marketing machine for their business. <a href="https://tinymarketingwins.com/sign-up/">Try it out</a>!</p>
      <p><em>Image: <a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/28623322@N05/2674449401/in/photolist-55kfCz-bALiQj-88dh5f-9SwLe5-eiPYEi-b7BLER-ipBFQa-bPEXPH-3deutN-bAJx9m-5ztZyg-75jSTD-og3xEc-48J2zi-8VBmUE-85P5N8-of4FLv-ipwTVo-H1siU-beNPxa-c7Fn6h-Jdu1J-nQP6fP-quyTkU-osUCby-c7dYpW-oguQNw-nQQ4cC-c7dZ3C-c7Tabf-8jYvHF-5j42vC-ipvG7q-bGwwZx-vArT9j-fMsF61-8mPnTc-fMb4Un-73BgFJ-nZ2Hhr-ieCdP6-oeucAS-6ZtKf2-fP5udC-c7FmX7-c7dYV5-c7Fn1d-oa4xUi-nZ2FtB-ogkeaN">magphotos123</a></em></p>
      
id: 822e2fb3-1d72-4d1c-8c5c-138372ae3752
