title: 'Public anxiety'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Tame your anxiety</p><p>Everyone gets nervous giving a talk; introverts and extroverts alike! However, some of us struggle more with social anxiety than others.</p><p>You can overcome this. My friend Jason <g class="gr_ gr_21 gr-alert gr_spell gr_inline_cards gr_run_anim ContextualSpelling ins-del multiReplace" id="21" data-gr-id="21">Charnes</g> has General Anxiety Disorder, but that hasn''t stopped him. He''s managed to speak at over 10 events! Here''s what''s worked for him:</p><p>Therapy: "The real help for me came when I also started to see an amazing counselor. I could tell him all the crazy things that go through my head, and leave his office feeling like the weight of the world has been lifted off my shoulders."</p><p>Breathing: Jason learned some breathing exercises that help him qualm panic attacks. "Anytime I start to go into a panic attack, I just lay back and breathe."</p><p>Start small: Jason''s first talk was 30-45 seconds at a Rails Conf. "During the lightning talks, they were having technical problems," he explains, "so they asked if anyone had a lightning talk they wanted to give that didn’t involve a computer." Jason was scared, but he went up and gave a short, honest talk: "Hi, I''m Jason, and I struggle with anxiety." It was short, but afterward, he realized that he''d done it.</p>'
  -
    type: sidebar
    text: '**Sidenote:** Jason will be presenting a session in my [upcoming class](https://justinjackson.podia.com/speak) on how to overcome anxiety when you speak in front of people. 👍'
id: 60b92c33-64d2-4c1f-88de-0caf5a61bfec
