title: 'Want to speak at a tech conference?'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Many of the developers I know want to get into public speaking.</p><p>They''ve got a message they want to share, or a topic they want to teach.</p><p>They also know that speaking at conferences is a&nbsp;good way to level-up professionally.</p><blockquote>"I recommend speaking at conferences – it&nbsp;helps you meet people and is also a clear ''Hey, I know what I''m doing and I can write good code'' signal to the world." – Stephanie Hurlburt</blockquote><p>But, for many, the idea of public speaking is terrifying.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/cory-house-speaking.png
    size: md
    brutalized: true
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>How can you overcome your nerves, and get on stage for the first time?</p>'
  -
    type: sidebar
    text: |
      **Announcement:** I'm doing a live "public speaking for geeks" class!
      
      <em>Nov 27th-30th 2018.</em> [More info here!](https://justinjackson.podia.com/speak)
  -
    type: text
    text: '<h2>How I got into public speaking</h2><p>When I was younger, I was the shyest kid in my whole class.</p><p>I went to a French immersion school (that''s a thing in Canada), and every year we''d have "Concours <g class="gr_ gr_36 gr-alert gr_spell gr_inline_cards gr_run_anim ContextualSpelling" id="36" data-gr-id="36">d’art</g> <g class="gr_ gr_37 gr-alert gr_spell gr_inline_cards gr_run_anim ContextualSpelling" id="37" data-gr-id="37">oratoire</g>." It was a public-speaking competition for students across the province.&nbsp;</p><p>"Concours" was mandatory, and I despised it. I''d have anxiety for weeks beforehand. When my turn came, I''d grit my teeth and just get through it as fast as possible (while staring at my shoes).</p><p>Fast forward to adulthood.</p><p>When I started my career, I realized that learning to speak publicly would be a critical skill. Whether it was presenting to my dev team, giving a product demo, or speaking at a local meetup, I needed to know how to give a talk.</p><p>I started small by doing team presentations. Then, I moved on to giving product demos.</p><p>Eventually, I put on a small workshop for our customers.</p><p>In 2011, I attended a Future of Web Apps conference in Miami and wondered, "could I speak on stage at a tech conference like this?"</p><p>I kept practicing. I spoke at local meetups and events.</p><p>And then, in 2015 I submitted an attendee talk for MicroConf in Las Vegas. My topic was picked, and I gave my 12-minute talk on stage at a tech conference!</p><p>The organizers liked it so much, they asked me to be the keynote speaker at MicroConf in Barcelona that summer.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/justin-jackson-microconf-talk-2015.jpg
    size: md
    brutalized: true
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Every year since then I’ve spoken at tech conferences like MicroConf, AppSumo’s SumoCon, and Laracon.</p>'
  -
    type: html_embed
    embed_code: '<style>.embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; } .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }</style><div class=''embed-container''><iframe src=''https://www.youtube.com/embed//xOapCnFFrFk?rel=0'' frameborder=''0'' allowfullscreen></iframe></div>'
  -
    type: text
    text: '<ul><li><b>Therapy:</b> "The real help for me came when I also started to see an amazing counselor.&nbsp;I could tell him all the crazy things that go through my head, and leave his office feeling like the weight of the world has been lifted off my shoulders."<br></li><li><b>Breathing: </b>Jason learned some breathing exercises that help him qualm panic attacks. "Anytime I start to go into a panic attack, I just lay back and breathe."</li><li><b>Start small: </b>Jason''s first talk was 30-45 seconds at a Rails Conf. "During the lightning talks, they were having technical problems," he explains, "so&nbsp;they asked if anyone had a lightning talk they wanted to give that didn’t involve a computer." Jason was scared, but he went up and gave a short, honest talk: "Hi, I''m Jason, and I struggle with anxiety." It was short, but afterward, he realized that <b>he''d done it</b>.</li></ul>'
  -
    type: sidebar
    text: '**Sidenote:** Jason will be presenting a session in my [upcoming class](https://justinjackson.podia.com/speak) on how to overcome anxiety when you speak in front of people. 👍'
id: ecfdff29-d1d1-4eb4-a364-ba304ed0b7f9
