title: 'I''ve been following you since grade 9'
author: Justin
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>When he appeared on screen, I was surprised. Usually, folks who <a href="https://megamaker.co/book-coaching-call/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">hire me</a> are in their 30s, 40s, or 50s.</p>
      <p>But Clint was young, in his early 20s. He had youthful excitement in his eyes and a big smile on his face.</p>
      <p>He wanted to discuss his product idea. It involved the blockchain and a bunch of other tech I didn't understand. But that was OK because Clint wanted my advice on marketing. He wondered, how could they promote this complicated tech to investors who might be 60 to 70 years old?</p>
      <h3>Let me see your landing page...</h3>
      <p>Invariably, my first question for a new startup is: do you have a landing page?</p>
      <p>Initially, Clint was skeptical.</p>
      <p>I asked him to imagine himself in this scenario:</p>
      <blockquote><p>Pretend I'm a 65-year-old investor. You manage to get a coffee meeting with me. We sit down at a table with our mugs, and I ask you: "Ok, what's this investment opportunity you have for me?"</p></blockquote>
      <p>Clint started back at me blankly.</p>
      <p>"Go ahead Clint," I prodded, "sell me on your product!"</p>
      <p>"You mean, right now?" he asked.</p>
      <p>"Yup, go for it!" I said.</p>
      <p>He then did what most of us do when someone asks us: "So what are you working on?" In a halting voice, he meandered through a 5-minute description of the tech, and how it worked. <strong>He was passionate about the topic, but couldn't articulate his product's value.</strong></p>
      <p><span class="redactor-invisible-space"><strong>"This is why you need a landing page," I answered.</strong></span></p>
      <p><span class="redactor-invisible-space">Writing a landing page helps you clarify:</span></p>
      <ul>
      <li><strong>Who</strong> your product is for.</li>
      <li><strong>What</strong> their main struggle is.</li>
      <li><strong>How</strong> you help them overcome that struggle.</li>
      <li><strong>How </strong>their life will be better.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>The benefit of doing this work goes beyond having a sales page on the internet.</p>
      <p>Now, you'll have a description of your product that you (and your team) can use <strong>everywhere</strong>:</p>
      <ul>
      <li>When you get on an elevator, and someone asks about your app.</li>
      <li>At a conference, when folks inquire: "What do you do for work?"</li>
      <li>In your emails, blog posts, podcasts, tweets, and YouTube videos.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>It's a reusable soundbite that communicates your product's value.</p>
      <p><strong>The other benefit?</strong></p>
      <p>After you describe your product, you can point folks to your <strong>landing page </strong><span class="redactor-invisible-space">and get them to sign up.</span></p>
      <h3>A plot twist</h3>
      <p>I was enjoying my call with Clint. He was energetic, writing notes, and engaging with the process. I ended up giving him extra time.</p>
      <p>I was about to end the call when he interrupted me:</p>
      <p>"Justin, I need to tell you something."</p>
      <p>He continued:</p>
      <p>"I wanted to tell you that I've been a huge fan of yours since I was in the <strong>ninth grade</strong>. I discovered your <a href="https://justinjackson.ca/words" target="_blank" rel="noopener">This Is A Web Page</a>, and I've been on your newsletter list ever since."</p>
      <p>I did some quick mental math. I published that page on <a href="https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=5913381" target="_blank" rel="noopener">June 20, 2013</a>. Five years ago. That means Clint had been following my work since he was 14 or 15 years old.</p>
      <p>Wow.</p>
      <p>It's a great reminder about the power of words, and the legacy our web pages can create.</p>
      <p>Cheers,<br />
      Justin Jackson<br />
      <a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin" target="_blank" rel="noopener">@mijustin</a></p>
      <p>PS: ready to make your landing page? Get $20 off my <a href="https://justinjackson.podia.com/build-better-landing-pages?coupon=TMW3" target="_blank" rel="noopener">landing page course</a> until Jan 31, 2018.</p>
      
id: cddfb1f2-67ee-46b0-8fee-f6525b274d58
