title: 'People on the internet can be so mean'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Sometimes, making stuff on the internet sucks.</p><p>I have a friend who''s been making renovation videos with his partner for years.</p><p>They made a new one today, and they were excited about it. It''d been a while since they had posted.</p><p>They set aside a bunch of time to script everything out, to buy supplies, to film, and edit the video. </p><p>And then, they uploaded it to YouTube.</p><p>Some folks on Reddit found it, and that''s when the negativity started. My friend and his partner got lambasted.  "The negative comments were so overwhelming," he said, "that I removed the video."</p><blockquote><p>"It happens to all of us. If you''re doing anything interesting out in the world, you''re gonna have people get mad about something at some point."  – Rob Walling</p></blockquote><p>If you''ve received a negative email, a threatening DM, or a toxic comment, it can be devastating. You might think: "maybe I did something wrong," or "maybe they''re right."</p><p>Don''t jump to conclusions. First, let''s consider a few things.</p><h3>It''s easier to critique than to create</h3><p>Creating something, and releasing it to the public, is hard. Producing a quality product takes a long time. Plus, there are years of experience and practice that have to happen beforehand.</p><p>Do you know what''s easy?</p><p>Critique. Putting someone down. Tearing something apart. It only takes a few keystrokes to say "this sucks."</p><h3>Being mean is often about status</h3><p>When Tony Hawk got started, the older pro skateboarders made fun of him. "People called me a circus skater," he said to <a href="https://www.sportsnet.ca/more/tony-hawk-outcast-outcast-activity/">Sportsnet</a>, "I was an outcast. It was isolating."</p><p>Likewise, hockey players criticized Wayne Gretzky. "He''s too small to play pro," they''d say.</p><p>People mock others when they feel threatened. They''re reacting out of insecurity. They want to push you down, so they feel better about themselves.</p><h3>People are in pain</h3><p>It''s possible that those negative comments have nothing to do with you.</p><p><a href="https://www.liebertpub.com/doi/pdf/10.1089/109493103321640338">Researchers in Korea</a> found that people often use the internet to ease their pain and loneliness. They''ll lash out online because they''re hurting.</p><p>I remember getting a particularly nasty insult on Twitter. It was so toxic and gross, I didn''t know how to feel, or respond. But when I visited their profile, it became clear that their life was in disarray. They''d had a death in the family, been in the hospital, and were struggling with money.</p><h3>The disinhibition effect</h3><p>In regular communication, we pick up on verbal and non-verbal cues.  Also, we''ve evolved a variety of societal norms for our public behavior.</p><p>But researchers have noticed that on the internet, we behave differently. They call this the "online disinhibition effect."</p><p>Christopher Terry, at the University of Kentucky, describes it <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4891856/">this way</a>:</p><blockquote><p>[The internet] allows people to separate from in-person identity and moral agency, thereby freeing them to express hostility and criticism without any effect to the psyche. [Online], individuals are physically invisible to others, permitting them to disregard any eye contact or physical reaction of the other person.</p></blockquote><p>Those nasty things people are hurling at you online? They would probably never say that to your face. On the web, we lose our inhibitions.</p><h3>We can all be better</h3><p>None of us are immune to the online disinhibition effect.</p><p>Too often, we''re quick to criticize people, and their work, online.  </p><p>Jason Fried wrote <a href="https://signalvnoise.com/posts/3124-give-it-five-minutes">this post</a> years ago, and I still think about it:</p><blockquote><p>I used to be a hothead. Whenever anyone said anything, I’d think of a way to disagree. I’d push back hard if something didn’t fit my world-view. The faster you react, the less you think.</p></blockquote><p>When you feel the urge to respond to someone''s work, give it some time. Examine the context. Before you hit send, ask yourself: “am I being kind?”</p><p>Also, ask yourself if you''ve earned the right to critique someone''s work. </p><p>In Jason Fried''s story, he had just met Richard Saul Wurman (the famous architect). He later reflected:</p><blockquote><p>I quickly pushed back at some of his ideas. I must have seemed like such an asshole. Richard has spent his career thinking about these problems. He’s given it 30 years. And I gave it just a few minutes.</p></blockquote><p>Too often I see folks critiquing out of ego, envy, or bitterness. Who wants to take correction from people like that?</p><p>However, I do want to engage with people who have the same goals as me: better ideas, enriched lives, and forward progress for humanity. I''m open to their ideas because we have the same destination.</p><h3>What to do if people get upset at you</h3><p>There are three good reasons for folks to get upset about your work:</p><ol><li>You were wrong.</li><li>You were hurtful.</li><li>You made a mistake.</li></ol><p>If any of these are true, apologize and make it right!</p><p>Rob Walling suggests that you "get a sanity check on it." Reach out to a trusted group of peers, or a mentor. Explain the situation. They''ll help you recognize when you were wrong.</p><p>On the flipside, recognize that some people are just toxic, jealous, or insecure.</p><p>"Some people are mad about everything all the time," says Rob Walling, "and today was just their day to be mad at you."</p><p>Cheers,<br>Justin Jackson<br><a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p>'
  -
    type: newsletter
seo:
  description: 'We’re way too quick to critique other people, and their work. It''s especially bad on social media and in comment threads.'
  image: /assets/people-on-the-internet-are-mean.jpg
id: b3a5b8fc-4f42-4420-ae28-508aa6172077
