title: 'Moving on'
article_content:
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/moving-on.jpg
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>I have a friend who''s shutting down his business. He made the announcement on Facebook. People replied in the comments:</p><blockquote><p>"Oh no! This sucks! I feel so bad for you! This is sad!"</p></blockquote><p>In our culture,  stopping is often seen as failure. We''re taught to persevere; to keep going. But we need to emphasize the opposite: people should feel free to quit.Most of the successful people I know are good at quitting! When things aren''t working, they move on:</p><blockquote><p>"If I get an idea, I immediately take a step forward and see how that feels. If it feels good, I take another step forward. If it feels bad, I take a step back. I learn by doing." – Yvon Chouinard, Patagonia</p></blockquote><p>My friend Josh Pigford started <a href="https://joshpigford.com/projects" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">50 projects</a> before he found success with <a href="https://baremetrics.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Baremetrics</a>. Think about that: from 2003 until 2013 he had to quit fifty times.For most people, It will take multiple attempts to find something that works. If you keep doing what''s not working, how will you ever find what does work? And even our successful projects won''t last forever! Eventually, we''ll need to move on. That''s normal; that''s healthy.There are many good reasons to quit:</p><ul><li>Markets decline.</li><li>Our desires shift.</li><li>Circumstances change. </li></ul><p>So when folks tell us they''re moving on, we should be more supportive. Instead of being sombre, we should respond with an affirmation:</p><blockquote><p>"Good for you! That must have been a tough decision, but I''m glad you made it!"</p></blockquote><p>There''s no shame in quitting. Quitting gives you space. When you say "no" to one thing, you open yourself up to new opportunities where you can say "yes."It''s OK to move on.</p>'
id: dbd5c9e0-24c5-4e6b-9a34-a48b11074aa1
