title: 'The myth of the niche market'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>There''s an old internet myth that goes like this:</p><ul><li>The web is big and has billions of users.</li><li>Because the web is so big, even small niches have thousands of members.</li><li>Therefore, you can target almost any niche and make money on the internet.</li></ul><p>It''s probably best exemplified in this old Merlin Mann quote from SXSW in 2009:</p><blockquote><p>"Don’t have a blog about Star Wars, have a blog about Jawas. In fact, have a blog about that one Jawa who is only the scene for a minute. It’s going to be so much easier for you to dominate."</p></blockquote><p>There is some wisdom in this. If you don''t have a specific group of people in mind, it''s difficult to build a unique position in the market.</p><p>This is something Al Ries identified in his book&nbsp;<a href="https://www.goodreads.com/work/quotes/746122">Positioning: The Battle for Your Mind</a>. In an overcrowded market, you need to stand out somehow:</p><blockquote><p>"In the communication jungle out there, the only hope to score big is to be selective, to concentrate on narrow targets, to practice segmentation. In a word, ''positioning.''"</p></blockquote><h2>How big of a market do you need to bootstrap a successful software business?</h2><p>I''ve observed hundreds of independent entrepreneurs, at MicroConf, in MegaMaker, and in my role as an advisor.</p><p>There are exceptions but almost everyone who is consistently earning more than $10k / month (and certainly those that break $50k) targeted a large, or fast-growing, market that they could reach efficiently.</p><p>How large does it need to be? Here are some examples:</p><ul><li>There are over 5 million PHP developers in the world, so when Taylor Otwell launched <a href="https://forge.laravel.com/">Forge</a> he got 1,000 customers within a month.</li><li>There are over 500,000 Shopify stores, so when Björn started making <a href="https://www.forsbergplustwo.com/">Shopify apps</a>, he had a big pool of potential customers. Within 6 years, he was earning $275,000 in annual revenue.</li><li>When Ruben Gamez saw that DocuSign had over 200 million users, he thought: "That''s a big market." And so he launched&nbsp;<a href="https://www.docsketch.com/">Docsketch</a>.</li></ul><p>Seth Godin thinks we should ask:</p><blockquote><p>"What’s the minimum number of people you would need to influence to make it worth the effort?"</p></blockquote><p>But, I think you still need to look at the broader picture: what is the <b>total</b> addressable market?</p><p>Because we''re likely not going to be able to influence 100%, 50%, or even 25% of a given market.</p><p>Typically, we start our funnels at "number of visitors" but in reality, the funnel looks like this:&nbsp;</p>'
  -
    type: sidebar
    text: 'Total market > Visitors > Trials > Customers'
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>If your total market is only 10,000 people, and you charge $100 per month, you might think: "I only need to find 100 customers to earn $10,000 a month."</p><p>But smaller markets have significant challenges:</p><ul><li>With a smaller market, your growth is generally slower.</li><li>Finding reliable, repeatable, and affordable, acquisitions channels is difficult.</li></ul><p>It''s not until you launch that you''ll realize how hard it is to grow your business.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/slow-saas-mrr-growth-in-a-small-market.png
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Many companies in small markets charge significantly more than $100 / month, but that can make growth and acquisition even slower (and might require a salesforce).</p><p>So focusing on a smaller market could mean <b>everything takes longer</b>. And when you''re bootstrapping a SaaS, your biggest risk is <b>surviving until you get to scale</b>.</p><h2>Case study: Moraware</h2><p>If you''re thinking about launching a product for a small market, I highly recommend <a href="http://techzinglive.com/page/1080/190-tz-interview-ted-pitts-harry-hollander-moraware">Techzing''s interview</a> with the founders of <a href="https://www.moraware.com/">Moraware</a>.</p><p>They make software for a niche group: countertop fabricators.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/the-moraware-software-team.jpg
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>And they''ve been successful! Ted and Harry (the founders) have built up a nice business with Moraware. Launched in 2002, they''ve grown to 11 employees and by 2019 had over 2,000 customers.&nbsp;</p><p>But it was easy getting there.</p><p>In the Techzing interview, Justin Vincent (the host) asks them about their journey. Here''s an excerpt:</p>'
  -
    type: sidebar
    text: |
      **Justin:** Did starting the company turn out the way you thought?
      
      **Harry:** I thought it would be a few weeks and we'd be raking in the dough. And it turns out it was more like years... (laughs)
      
      **Justin:** So, how many years were you guys both working on this before you'd made even any sensible money?
      
      **Ted:** I'm not sure what you mean by "sensible." (laughs)
      
      **Justin:** Like, enough to live off. Enough to cover both of your life costs.
      
      **Ted:** Well, it took a while before we were paying ourselves even a reasonable salary. Because for the first year and a half, we paid ourselves nothing. Then at about a year and a half, that's when we actually hired a couple employees. So at that point we started paying ourselves a salary, but it was very minimal.
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>In a 2015 <a href="https://www.tedpitts.com/the-most-important-saas-metric-nobody-talks-about/">blog post</a>, Ted notes that he and Harry both gave up six-figure salaries to start Moraware.</p><p>He goes on to say "this is what our profit chart would have looked like if Harry and I paid ourselves a market salary the whole time:"</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/moraware-real-profit.png
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Later in the interview, Justin asks them:</p>'
  -
    type: sidebar
    text: |
      **Justin:** So if you could do it again, would you start the same company? 
      
      **Ted:** Probably not. (Laughs) Because it's just been a very long, slow grind. One of the reasons this market is available to us is because it's difficult.
      
      You read about all these other startups we could be doing: something that targets a larger market. There, you can do the same amount of work, but get twice as many customers or ten times as many customers. 
      
      Because our product is complex, and people aren't just searching the web for it, sales is more difficult, the marketing is more difficult, support is more difficult.
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Again, what Ted and Harry achieved at Moraware is incredible. They''ve built a sustainable business that provides for eleven people and their families. It took them a long time, but they</p><p>But if you''re thinking of building a product for a small niche you should pay attention to their experience. Can you afford to spend ten years getting your company to scale? Are you willing to endure the slow grind?</p><p><br></p>'
id: 8d140b8b-2100-4527-9295-1ee3ae05f57a
