title: 'What does product-market fit feel like?'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<blockquote><p>"Will someone pay for this?"</p></blockquote><p>For bootstrappers, this is the question we pose when we''re about to build something new. And it''s a good place to start! But it doesn''t go deep enough.</p><p><b>We''re not looking for "someone" or even "some people."</b> In most cases, we''re looking for hundreds or thousands of customers. Getting five customers immediately after launch is a good sign, but if you can''t grow beyond that, you won''t be able to build a sustainable business.</p><p><b>Likewise, we want people to be willing to pay now.</b>&nbsp;We''re not looking for someone to pay "eventually." For a SaaS to work, it needs a group of people who are highly motivated to start a subscription <i>now</i>&nbsp;and then keep paying every month. Netflix doesn''t want you to become a customer next year; they want you as a customer now.</p><p><b>And finally, we want to attract customers without expending too much effort.</b>&nbsp;It can''t take too much time, money, and energy, to convince someone to pay.</p><h2>Fishing for business</h2><p>In&nbsp;<a href="https://justinjackson.ca/niche">The Myth of the Niche Market</a>, I used fishing as a metaphor for choosing the right market.</p><p>I quoted professional angler <a href="http://www.bishfish.co.nz/articles/salt/flogic.htm">Tony Bishop</a> who said:<br></p><blockquote><p>80% of fish are caught by 20% of fishermen. How do they do this? <i>They fish where the fish are most often.</i></p></blockquote><p>I want to emphasize that second part: "fish where the fish are most often."</p><p>Tony''s advice can be broken down into these parts:</p><ol><li>Decide which fish you want to catch</li><li>Figure out where those fish hang out ("For inshore species look for reefs, foul ground, weed beds, with good tidal or current flows")</li><li>Give the fish something they want</li></ol><p>He spends most of <a href="http://www.bishfish.co.nz/articles/salt/flogic.htm">this essay</a> describing steps for determining where to find groups of fish:</p><blockquote><p>Find the optimum environment, for the target species, and you will find the largest numbers of fish and the biggest fish.</p></blockquote><h3>It''s about showing up in the right spot</h3><p>There''s a <a href="https://youtu.be/mC3eXTcvfH0">viral video</a> that shows a boat motoring down a river. Suddenly, hundreds of fish start jumping into their boat.*</p>'
  -
    type: html_embed
    embed_code: '<style>.embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; -webkit-filter: grayscale(100%); filter: grayscale(100%);  } .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }</style><div class=''embed-container mb-3''><iframe src=''https://www.youtube.com/embed//mC3eXTcvfH0?rel=0'' frameborder=''0'' allowfullscreen></iframe></div>'
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>To me, this is product-market fit feels like.&nbsp;<b>Without you having to try too hard, customers should be showing up to buy your product.</b></p><p>Initially, you want to see some unprompted momentum.</p><p>People are surprised when they hear my friend Adam Wathan''s <a href="https://justinjackson.ca/adam-wathan-launch">launch story</a>:&nbsp;</p><blockquote><p>"I had 14 sales on the night before I officially launched."</p></blockquote><p>Adam showed up in such a good fishing spot that 14 fish jumped in his boat before he''d even cast his rod.</p><p>So how did he do that?&nbsp;</p><h2>A framework for fishing for customers</h2><h3>First, figure out which fish you want to catch</h3><p>I''ve <a href="https://devmarketing.xyz/saas-target-market/">written about this</a> in the past, but generally, you want customers who are:</p><ul><li>Plentiful in number</li><li>Willing to pay now</li><li>Highly motivated</li></ul><p>It also helps if they''re <a href="https://justinjackson.ca/want">a group you resonate with</a>.</p><p>For his <a href="https://adamwathan.me/refactoring-to-collections/?utm_source=justinjackson.ca&amp;utm_medium=link&amp;utm_campaign=indienewsletter">first product</a>, Adam Wathan targeted PHP developers. He knew there were millions of them, and he''d seen how motivated they were to learn new skills.</p><p>He was also a passionate member of that group.</p><blockquote><p>"I never set out to build an audience. I''ve just always enjoyed participating in the community and sharing what I know."</p></blockquote><h3>Next, hang out where there are lots of fish</h3><p>This step is crucial because it will determine (relatively quickly) whether your market is viable.</p><p>Adam seemed surprised when I asked him if it was hard for him to connect with PHP programmers.</p><blockquote><p>For me, Twitter was where all the programming discussions were happening. I started sharing quick practical tips, and I''d get a hundred retweets.</p></blockquote><p>Many of the problems entrepreneurs face are related to <a href="https://justinjackson.ca/niche">targeting a niche</a> where there aren''t a lot of fish.</p><p>Paraphrasing Jason Cohen:</p><blockquote><p>"The idea of a small niche (without competition) is appealing. But conversely, it''s sure easy to sell ice cream at a crowded beach; even when you’re next to another ice cream stand."</p></blockquote>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/selling-ice-cream-on-a-hot-day.jpg
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: '<h3>Finally, give them what they want</h3><p>Choosing a sizeable market that''s easy to reach is a big part of the battle.</p><p>But you''re still going to need to <a href="https://justinjackson.ca/build">build something they want</a>.</p><p>Again, sometimes I think entrepreneurs overthink this. They believe they need to be overly original.</p><p>I like Jason Cohen''s example: "Just think of selling ice cream on a crowded beach on a hot day."</p>'
  -
    type: sidebar
    text: |
      What you're looking for is resonance. _Ice cream_ sells well on a _hot day_, at the _beach_.
      
      **"Product, timing, and market - you need all three!"** – [Jordan Gal](https://twitter.com/JordanGal/status/1131414132605849600)
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Adam once said to me:</p><blockquote><p>"I''m lucky to be teaching an in-demand topic to a huge market of people who have money to spend on training."</p></blockquote><h2>Are they jumping in your boat?</h2><p>When you ask people to buy, what momentum do you observe?</p><p><a href="https://www.derrickreimer.com/essays/2019/05/17/im-walking-away-from-the-product-i-spent-a-year-building.html">In this post</a>, Derrick Reimer describes the response he got to Level, a product he''d been building for a year:</p>'
  -
    type: sidebar
    text: |
      I began to feel a creeping sense of uneasiness. Was I still on the right track?
      
      To keep myself honest, I set a public deadline on my podcast and sold $49 pre-orders to those who wanted to be in the first batch. Around 50 people bought the pre-order.
      
      I began scheduling onboarding calls with the first batch.
      
      The response did not live up to my expectations. Only a subset of people who paid booked an onboarding session. Of those who did, some never touched the product. Some who did poke around the product never gave it a real go with their team.
      
      I decided to invite the 500 most recent people to try Level, in pursuit of more data.
      
      I observed how people were using it for about a week. There was a lot of poking around and, once again, virtually zero evidence of anyone piloting it with their team.
      
      I did another round of calls. What I found was troubling. Everyone expressed being “annoyed” by their current solution. However, when pressed with the question of “_what have you done about it so far?_”, almost universally the answer was “nothing.”
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Derrick did the right thing: he looked for evidence that people were willing to do something about the problem he was trying to solve.</p><blockquote><p>Do I have the right market? The right bait? Are the fish biting?</p></blockquote><p>If you pull up to a fishing spot teeming with fish, and you''ve got the right bait, they should practically be jumping in your boat.<br></p><p>But if the fish aren''t biting, it''s likely you''re in a lousy market or have the wrong product (or both).</p><p>Need help with your next steps?</p><ol><li><a href="https://justinjackson.ca/who-do-you-love">Figure out who you want to serve</a>&nbsp;(<a href="https://justinjackson.ca/who">this interview is good too</a>)</li><li><a href="https://justinjackson.ca/help-the-crowd">Meet them where they are.</a></li><li><a href="https://justinjackson.ca/build">Give them what they want.</a></li></ol><p>Cheers,<br>Justin Jackson<br><a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p>'
  -
    type: newsletter
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>PS: Before I get too much email about that <a href="https://youtu.be/mC3eXTcvfH0">viral video</a> I shared: I realize that the fish jumping in the boat are Asian carp, an invasive species. They''re not especially desirable for fishing (or eating), but the image was too powerful not to share!</p>'
seo:
  title: 'What does product-market fit feel like?'
  description: 'Without you having to try too hard, customers should be showing up to buy your product.'
  image: /assets/ernine-and-bert-here-fishy-fishy-boat-fishing.jpg
id: 11e53a81-5d09-4592-a0ed-4ca3fc000705
