title: 'The haters'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>My friend Colin is one of the most gentle souls I know.&nbsp;<br></p><p>Years ago, he was sitting in his truck in a parking lot. A man walked by, visibly distraught, and motioned for him to roll down his window.</p><p>Colin opened his window, and the man started yelling. He was upset about something. (It might have been about how Colin was parked; I can''t remember.)<br></p><p>Shaken, Colin tried to calm him down, but it didn''t help, there was no reasoning with the angry man. He continued to escalate.</p><p>And then he punched Colin in the face.<br></p><p>I can''t imagine being in that position. Being punched by a random angry person on the street.</p><p>That story still rattles me. What causes an individual to respond with such violence and vitriol?</p><p>Fast forward 15 years.</p><p>I''m sitting in a room with my therapist. And one thing I''m grappling with, in 2017, is the feeling that the world has passed me by.</p><p>The hope and optimism of my 20s have passed. And sitting in that room, at 37, I realized that I''d grown jaded.</p><p>I felt beat up by my circumstances and depressed by my current state. And so when I saw a young, earnest, twenty-something, I was resentful of them.</p><p><i>What causes an individual to respond with vitriol?</i></p><p><b>It''s those negative feelings:</b> bitterness, hurt, and resentment.</p><p>As Gus Razzetti points out&nbsp;<a href="https://medium.com/personal-growth/how-to-free-your-mind-from-toxic-behaviors-7dd9c9cbdb9d">here</a>:&nbsp;</p><blockquote><p>"Negative thinking is deceiving — it initially seems innocuous. Until we fall into a repetitive pattern that ignites a toxic mental spin."</p></blockquote><p>A resentful person will dig into these feelings; they''ll be comforted by them.</p><p>I''m fortunate that I had people in my life who noticed I was in a negative tailspin and gently nudged me to take action.</p><p>I went to therapy.</p><p>With help, I was able to remove the resentment that had been festering inside me for years.&nbsp;</p><p>It felt a bit like cleaning out a cancer. Once the root pain was dealt with, my cynicism disappeared.&nbsp;</p><p>But I can see how, left unchecked, negativity can poison you as a person.</p><p><i>What causes an individual to respond with vitriol?</i></p><p>It''s those festering negative feelings that people carry inside.</p><p>When I was feeling down, I don''t think I ever lashed out at anybody publicly. But I can see now why some people do.&nbsp;</p><h2>Toxic people on the internet</h2><p>On <a href="https://twitter.com/shanesmithau/status/1175236304126148608">Twitter</a>, Shane told me about how he''d received this comment on a video he''d made:</p><blockquote><p>"This is the worst content on YouTube, and you should delete your channel."</p></blockquote><p>To me, this statement is clearly toxic and should be ignored. But for Shane, it''s personal. These words hurt.</p><p>If you''ve ever made anything on the internet, you''ve likely felt "punched" like this.</p><p>The internet is the perfect channel for bitter people to channel their hate.</p><blockquote><p>"Addiction to suffering is at some level driven by a desire to feel better." – Nancy Colier</p></blockquote><p>It makes haters feel "good" to feel bad.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/on-computer-dark-dealing-with-toxic-people.jpg
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>And, as researchers Lane, Hull, and Foehrenbach have observed, that addiction to suffering leads to "negative behaviors and destructive attitudes toward self and others." (<a href="http://www.pep-web.org/document.php?id=psar.078.0391a">Ref 1</a>,&nbsp;<a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1763149">Ref 2</a>)</p><p>So, if we''re going to make things online (and we should!) we''re going to have to deal with toxic people.</p><h3>How to spot a hater</h3><p>Healthy humans generally assume the best of people. This is a good thing! But that good nature makes it harder for us to discern when we, or the people around us, are being abused.</p><p>Haters are crafty.&nbsp;</p><p>The book&nbsp;<a href="https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00263ZLGW/ref=cm_sw_r_tw_dp_U_x_AIwHDb4CJFW6Q">Toxic Workplace</a>&nbsp;describes it this way:</p><blockquote><p>"Toxic people are adept at masking the toxicity when it is to their advantage. They can turn their behaviors on and off depending on the impression they want to make." – Kusy, Mitchell&nbsp;</p></blockquote><p>Further, "toxic people may act differently" depending on who''s around, and who''s watching.</p><p>So you need to learn to recognize when you''re dealing with someone toxic online.</p><p>Elizabeth Holloway, Ph.D., and Mitchell Kusy, Ph.D., have done a lot of research on workplace toxicity. Their chart <a href="https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/f4c8/2588309a1ca0d370666e9c60ed180d34f1ab.pdf">here</a> is helpful:</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/toxic-behaviors.png
    size: md
    brutalized: false
    clickable_image_url: 'https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/f4c8/2588309a1ca0d370666e9c60ed180d34f1ab.pdf'
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>How can you recognize a toxic person online? By their repeated behavior! They are constantly:<br></p><ul><li>embroiled in some form of online drama,</li><li>shaming and humiliating people publicly,</li><li>saying negative things about others publicly.</li></ul><p>You''ll also notice that they:</p><ul><li>hang out with other negative people that like to complain,</li><li>distrust anyone who seems happy or earnest.</li></ul><p>One frustration, especially for victims, is that <b>not everyone recognizes the signs of a toxic person.</b></p><p>Many of us don''t like to rock the boat or call attention to ourselves, but <a href="https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00263ZLGW/ref=cm_sw_r_tw_dp_U_x_AIwHDb4CJFW6Q">Kusy and Mitchell</a> say that accommodating toxic behaviors will only make the problem worse:</p><blockquote><p>Most [people] believe it is easier to just let the toxic person have his or her way because the retaliation is so awful, as indicated in this comment: “People are afraid of the toxic person. People avoid her, try to work around her. We avoid contact even when the person’s expertise would be of value.”</p></blockquote><h2>How to deal with toxic people</h2><p>Most of the time you can''t reason with toxic people. Remember, for them, "it feels good to feel bad."&nbsp;<br></p><p>As Lane, Hull, and Foehrenbach point out:</p><blockquote><p>"They have a recurring need for activities that eliminate pleasure and induce a state of dysphoria."</p></blockquote><p>Holloway and Kusy put it this way in <a href="https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00263ZLGW/ref=cm_sw_r_tw_dp_U_x_AIwHDb4CJFW6Q">their book</a>:</p><blockquote><p>"Toxic people are often self-righteous. [They] cannot find fault in themselves. This is the reason that explaining their behaviors to them often doesn’t work."</p></blockquote><p>So I''m not entirely sure what the right solution is for dealing with negative people online.</p><p>Here are my current thoughts:</p><ol><li>We need to ignore people who are consistently toxic and harmful.</li><li>Individually, we should be open to correction from others: "Hey, that wasn''t nice."</li><li>We need to be kind.</li></ol><p><a href="https://twitter.com/ncolier">Nancy Colier</a> (quoted above) reached out in my DMs to say:</p><blockquote><p>"We can''t change the negativity in anyone else, but we can set ourselves free from it.  Separating ourselves from toxic people is crucial to our wellbeing."</p></blockquote><p>Another thought from Holloway and Kusy''s <a href="https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00263ZLGW/ref=cm_sw_r_tw_dp_U_x_AIwHDb4CJFW6Q">book</a> that resonated with me was this idea that fighting toxicity has to be a community project:</p><blockquote><p>One brave person without a system of support cannot solve the problem of toxicity. After all, if it takes a village to raise a child, then most certainly it takes a [community] working together to change the tide of toxicity.</p></blockquote><h2>Feeling punched</h2><p>If you''ve ever felt metaphorically "punched in the face" by someone online: I know how much it sucks.</p><p>If anything, I hope this post helps you realize:</p><ul><li>You''re not alone (this abuse happens to a lot of people).</li><li>Abusive behavior is not OK.</li><li>Comments from a toxic person have nothing to do with you</li></ul><p>Cheers,<br>Justin Jackson<br><a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p>'
  -
    type: newsletter
seo:
  title: 'The haters'
  description: 'What to do about toxic people online'
  image: /assets/toxic-people-1569031574.jpg
id: 3f741cba-4ba1-46e5-b9f7-6a65e840bcb7
