title: 'Is the Product-Market Fit survey accurate?'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<blockquote><p>How would you feel if you could no longer use Slack?</p></blockquote><p>I''ve been thinking about this question a lot lately.</p><p>Personally, it''s difficult for me to parse my feelings into an easy answer.</p><p>Would I be disappointed?</p><p>In our company, <a href="https://transistor.fm/?via=justin">Transistor</a>, Jon and I use Slack every day to communicate. I''m also a member of a handful of other communities and groups that use Slack.</p><p>When I initially started using Slack, I loved it. The interface felt playful. It was easy to start a new group based on a shared interest.</p><p>But now, like many others, I''ve grown weary of it.</p><p>My weariness isn''t enough to make me stop using it, but it''s made me wonder: how disappointed would I be, really, if it went away?</p><h2>The Product/Market Fit Survey</h2><p>To determine whether Dropbox had product/market fit, Sean Ellis used this same question ("How would you feel if you could no longer use Dropbox?").</p><p>He gave respondents four choices:</p><ul><li>Very disappointed</li><li>Somewhat disappointed</li><li>Not disappointed (it really isn''t that useful)</li><li>N/A (I no longer use the product)</li></ul><p>His benchmark for product/market fit was if 40% (or more) of respondents replied that they would be "very disappointed if they could no longer use the product."</p><p>He later admitted that "this threshold is a bit arbitrary, but I defined it after comparing results across nearly 100 startups. Those that struggle for traction are always under 40%, while most that gain strong traction exceed 40%.”</p><p>I''ve personally used this survey, for different startups I''ve worked with. I''ve also recommended it <a href="https://youtu.be/C-Kv6V2etc8">here</a>, in the past:</p>'
  -
    type: html_embed
    embed_code: '<style>.embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; -webkit-filter: grayscale(100%); filter: grayscale(100%); } .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }</style><div class=''embed-container''><iframe src=''https://www.youtube.com/embed//C-Kv6V2etc8?rel=0'' frameborder=''0'' allowfullscreen></iframe></div>'
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>The survey seems especially helpful for early-stage products.</p><p>But, as I observed above, the results might not be as useful for more mature products.</p><h3>Limitations of the Product/Market Fit Survey</h3><p>The survey has other limitations, that product people should be aware of.</p><p>First, it asks customers to guess about their future feelings.</p><p>As Rob Fitzpatrick points out in <a href="http://momtestbook.com/">his book</a>, their answers could lead you down the wrong path. He points out that humans are generally bad at forecasting their future behavior.</p><p>When a customer responds to your product survey and says they''d be "very disappointed" if your product went away, they''re guessing. In the future, if your product does go away, they might find that it doesn''t actually bug them that much!</p><p>For example, even though I rely on Slack every day, I might actually be <i>relieved</i>&nbsp;if it went away. Not having the constant interruptions and notifications might actually make my life <i>better</i>. But I won''t know until I experience it.</p><p>Likewise, I remember thinking I''d be horribly upset when <a href="https://blog.sunrise.am/">Microsoft acquired Sunrise Calendar</a> and announced they''d be shutting it down.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    size: md
    brutalized: true
    image: /assets/content/sunrise-calendar-shut-down.png
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>But, when they did remove my account, I just moved to Google Calendar, and I was fine. Any feelings of disappointment disappeared pretty quickly.</p><h3>Alternatives to the Product/Market Fit survey</h3><p>In "<a href="http://momtestbook.com/">The Mom Test</a>," Rob advocates for asking a different type of question:</p><blockquote><p>"Ask about what they already do now, not what they believe they might do in the future."</p></blockquote><p>He doesn''t mention the Product/Market Fit survey directly, but I believe the principle applies here as well.</p><p>Instead of asking, "how disappointed would you feel?" we could ask:</p><ul><li>"Has the product ever been unavailable?" (Due to an outage, or other reason)</li><li>"How did that make you feel when you couldn''t use it?"</li><li>"How did it affect your productivity?"</li><li>"Did you search for alternatives?"</li></ul><p>An outage is a real event in the past. We don''t have to guess about how we''d feel, we know.</p><p>In fact, you can search "Slack is down" on Twitter and see tons of examples of how people react.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/slack-is-down-what-do-we-do.png
    size: md
    brutalized: true
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>The most common reaction to Slack being down?&nbsp;</p><blockquote><p>"Oh cool, I can get some work done!"</p></blockquote><p>My guess is that this kind of sentiment doesn't show up on Product/Market Fit Surveys.&nbsp;</p><p>It sounds like many folks would be “relieved” if they could no longer use Slack.
      
      But that doesn't mean they don't have product/market fit. Their customers will continue to use Slack because it’s entrenched in their company culture and processes.</p><p>My friend Derrick Reimer learned how rooted Slack users are in their current behavior when he <a href="https://www.derrickreimer.com/essays/2019/05/17/im-walking-away-from-the-product-i-spent-a-year-building.html">tried to build a competitor:</a></p><blockquote><p>The gap between interest and implementation was of canyon-like proportions. Small teams didn’t seem that compelled by Level. In follow-up conversations, I discovered that Slack was at most a minor annoyance for them. Suboptimal? Yes. Worth going through the trouble of switching? Probably not.</p></blockquote><p>To me, this "allegiance to the present" is a clear sign of product/market fit. Folks are annoyed by Slack, but they're not willing to give it up.</p><p>In the same way, I feel overwhelmed by all the content on Netflix. I rarely watch it, and would gladly give it up. But the rest of my family has different ideas! So I might not feel disappointed if it went away, but to maintain peace at home, I'll gladly keep paying for it.</p><p><br></p>
seo:
  description: 'The survey has other limitations, that product people should be aware of.'
  image: /assets/product-market-fit-survey.png
id: 6b69ffbb-97f6-4cfe-a8f7-865e13ebe2a0
