title: 'We need the rigor'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>I always liked writing.</p><p>In the fifth grade, I wrote a dark, brooding story about a rat in a dungeon. My teacher liked it so much she read it in front of the class. At first I was embarrassed, but afterwards I felt validated.&nbsp;</p><p>Being affirmed, publicly, about my abilities made me want to write more.</p><p>By the time I entered high school, I''d written hundreds of poems and short stories. I was passionate about writing, and I felt like a good writer.<br></p><p><b>Then I joined, Dr. Nyberg''s advanced English class.</b></p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/bw-memorial-composite-high-school-old-campus-stony-plain.jpg
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>On our first day in class, she gave us an assignment:</p><blockquote><p>"Write a three-point essay."</p></blockquote><p>This seemed easy enough.</p><p>Up until this point, I''d been able to get by on natural talent. I hadn''t had to try that hard to get good marks.</p><p>So, when I handed in my essay to Dr. Nyberg, I was expecting an A+.&nbsp;</p><p>But when I got it back there were no affirmative platitudes. Instead, the margins of my paper were drenched with Nyberg''s marking pen. She pointed out all the places I could improve: succinct sentences, better structure, a stronger introduction.</p><p>And she wasn''t just targeting me. I think the highest class mark on that first paper was a B. For a group of kids who were used to an A+, this was hard to accept. Some kids complained. Dr. Nyberg didn''t bat an eye, she just had us do more writing.</p><p>She was pushing everyone beyond their individual comfort zone.</p><p>We wrote a new essay almost every single week.&nbsp;And each time we handed a paper in, there would be suggestions on how we could improve our writing.</p><p>This meant her class wasn''t always fun. Sometimes, we''d whine:&nbsp;</p><blockquote><p>"Nyberg, you''re making us write another essay?! Can''t we do something else?" </p></blockquote><p>Writing essays over and over again seemed redundant. What was the point?</p><p>It didn''t become clear until I graduated high school.</p><h2>What I realized in college</h2><p>I went to college for business.</p><p>On our first day of our marketing class, our prof gave us an assignment:</p><blockquote><p>"Write a three-point essay."</p></blockquote><p>I put my head down and intuitively started writing.</p><p>About halfway through, I looked around the class. Nobody else was writing. My classmates were wearing pained expressions. <b>They didn''t know where to start.</b> Even the idea of starting with an introduction, and ending with a conclusion, was foreign to them.</p><p>But, because of the rigorous practice I''d had in Dr. Nyberg''s class, I could have written that paper in my sleep.</p><p>I got an A+.</p><p>To this day day, writing comes easier to me than a lot of my peers. And that''s not because of ingrained talent. It''s a skill that was forged in me through Dr. Nyberg''s coaching.</p><h2>Passion isn''t enough; we need the rigor</h2><p>When I entered high school, I was passionate about writing, but I wasn''t a good writer.</p><p>Dr. Nyberg took my natural talent, and sharpened it into something useful.</p><p>In modern society, we talk a lot about following our passion. But passion isn''t enough. It needs to be molded through deliberate practice.</p><p><b>Are you passionate about what you do, but you want to sharpen your skillset?</b></p><p>Here are some ideas I''m trying to put into practice to bring "rigor" into my life.</p><h3>Work in public&nbsp;</h3><p>Whenever I can, I''m trying to share the process of what I''m working on.&nbsp;</p><p>For me, this means <a href="https://justinjackson.ca/livestreaming">livestreaming</a>, doing a podcast on my <a href="https://saas.transistor.fm">startup''s journey</a>, and sharing early drafts of my work. For my friend Adam Wathan, it means writing a <a href="https://adamwathan.me/journal/">work journal</a>.&nbsp;</p><p>Consistently publishing updates about my work motivates me to keep practicing every week.</p><p>For example, I want to learn more programming. To practice, I''ll go live on Periscope, Twitch, and <a href="https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLMON2GgvkBWJmjgMpEglXH4TRoJaDjH7_">YouTube</a> and try to tackle a particular concept. People show up in the live chat and offer suggestions.</p><p>(It''s kind of like pair programming with 10-20 people simultaneously)</p><h3>Fostering a safe, but critical, peer group</h3><p>I do a monthly call with Paul Jarvis and Jarrod Drysdale. We''ve been doing these calls since 2014. These guys aren''t afraid to push back on my ideas, or make suggestions for improving my work.<br></p><p>Likewise, the <a href="https://megamaker.co">MegaMaker</a> Slack has a #feedback channel, where anyone can ask for help or a critique.</p><p>We all need friends and colleagues who aren''t afraid to challenge us; who can call us out on our bullshit.</p><h3>Streaks</h3><p>A lot of folks are talking about this app, <a href="https://streaksapp.com/">Streaks</a>. I was skeptical at first, but I''ve been using it consistently since January 1st.</p><p>Here''s how it helps you develop a practice habit: every time you complete a daily task, you extend your streak.</p><p>So if you entered "Write 500 words a day," every day you completed that task you would give yourself a checkmark.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/streaks-app-writing.gif
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>The more days you complete your tasks in a row, the more motivated you''ll be to "not break the chain."</p><h3>Mentors, coaches, teachers</h3><p>To become a better writer, I needed Dr. Nyberg in my corner.<br></p><p>This is why going to a live, in-person, class or workshop is so beneficial; there''s nowhere to hide!</p><p>When an expert feels responsible for your growth, they''ll push you beyond your comfort zone.</p><p><br></p>'
id: 2a39fa36-fc9d-4028-b200-6808b0e6b169
