title: 'Addicted to negativity'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>My friend Colin is one of the most gentle souls I know.&nbsp;</p><p>Years ago, he was sitting in his truck in a parking lot. A man walked by, visibly distraught, and motioned for him to roll down his window.</p><p>Colin opened his window, and the man started yelling. He was upset about something. (It might have been about how Colin was parked; I can''t remember.)<br></p><p>Shaken, Colin tried to calm him down, but it didn''t help, there was no reasoning with the angry man. He continued to escalate.</p><p>And then he punched Colin in the face.<br></p><p>Can you imagine being in that position? Having a random person become so perturbed that they punched you?</p><p>I''m still rattled by that story. What causes an individual to respond with such violence and vitriol?</p><h2>Festering negativity</h2><p>Fast forward many years.</p><p>In 2017, I was depressed. I was grappling with some hard stuff in my personal life.</p><p>Over time, I''d allowed feelings of cynicism grow inside of me. This resulted in me being resentful towards anyone who seemed happy and earnest.</p><p>I don''t think I ever lashed out at anybody publicly, but I can remember meeting smart, purposeful, twenty-somethings and being off-put by their wholeheartedness.</p><p>Their "joie de vivre" was enough to provoke negative thoughts inside of me.</p><p>I gave <a href="https://justinjackson.ca/laracon">a talk</a> about my battle with these feelings at a conference in New York.</p><p>Based on the response, I''ve learned that all of us are prone to this behavior on some level.</p><p>Our emotional health goes up and down.</p><p>And when we''re feeling down, we can think, do, and say things that aren''t kind.</p><h2>Climbing out of negativity</h2><p>For me personally, going to therapy was the key to climbing out of my negativity.</p><p>With help, I was able to remove the resentment that had been festering inside me for years. It was only when we''d dealt with the root pain that I was able to see clearly.</p><p>(<a href="https://justinjackson.ca/cynical">I wrote a bit about that journey here</a>)</p><h2>Unchecked negativity</h2><p>But left unchecked, being jaded can poison your mind.</p><p>As Gus Razzetti points out <a href="https://medium.com/personal-growth/how-to-free-your-mind-from-toxic-behaviors-7dd9c9cbdb9d">here</a>:&nbsp;</p><blockquote><p>"Negative thinking is deceiving — it initially seems innocuous. Until we fall into a repetitive pattern that ignites a toxic mental spin."</p></blockquote><p>A hurt, bitter, or resentful person will dig into these feelings; they''ll be comforted by them.</p><p>Or, as Nancy Colier says:</p><blockquote><p>"Our addiction to suffering is at some level driven by a desire to feel better."</p></blockquote><p>In a perverse way, it feels "good" to feel bad.</p><p>Three researchers (Lane RC, Ph.D., Hull JW, Ph.D., Foehrenbach) observed cases of this addiction to negativity.</p><p>They found that folks became "attached to and dependent on various forms of negative behaviors and destructive attitudes toward self and others." (<a href="http://www.pep-web.org/document.php?id=psar.078.0391a">Ref 1</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1763149">Ref 2</a>)</p><h2>Toxic people online</h2>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/on-computer-dark-dealing-with-toxic-people.jpg
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>We can see how this kind of behavior gets manifested online.</p><p>Behind a computer screen, it''s even easier for folks who are hurt, bitter, angry, resentful, to lash out at others.</p><p>Eventually, if you''re on the internet, you''re going to encounter one of these toxic people.<br></p><h2>How to identify a toxic person</h2><p>We tend to assume the best of people (that''s a good thing). But, you also need to learn to recognize when you''re dealing with someone toxic online.</p><p>Elizabeth Holloway, PhD, and Mitchell Kusy, PhD have done a lot of research on workplace toxicity. Their chart <a href="https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/f4c8/2588309a1ca0d370666e9c60ed180d34f1ab.pdf">here</a> is helpful:</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/toxic-behaviors.png
    size: md
    brutalized: false
    clickable_image_url: 'https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/f4c8/2588309a1ca0d370666e9c60ed180d34f1ab.pdf'
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>How can recognize a toxic person online? By their repeated behavior! They are constantly:</p><ul><li>embroiled in some form of online drama,</li><li>shaming and humiliating people publicly,</li><li>saying negative things about others publicly.</li></ul><p>You''ll also notice that they:</p><ul><li>hang out with other negative people that like to complain,</li><li>distrust anyone who seems happy or earnest.</li></ul><h2>How to deal with toxic people</h2><p>The challenge?</p><p>Most of the time you can''t reason with toxic people. Remember, for them "it feels good to feel bad."&nbsp;</p><p>As Lane, Hull, and Foehrenbach point out:</p><blockquote><p>"They have a recurring need for activities that eliminate pleasure and induce a state of dysphoria."</p></blockquote><p>Holloway and Kusy put it this way in <a href="https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00263ZLGW/ref=cm_sw_r_tw_dp_U_x_AIwHDb4CJFW6Q">their book</a>:</p><blockquote><p>"Toxic people are often self-righteous. [They] cannot find fault in themselves. This is the reason that explaining their behaviors to them often doesn’t work."</p></blockquote><p>So, to be honest, I''m not completely sure what the right solution is for dealing with negative people online.</p><p>Here are my current thoughts:</p><ol><li>We need to ignore people who are consistently toxic and negative.</li><li>We, personally, need to be open to correction from others: "Hey, that wasn''t nice."</li><li>We need to be kind.</li></ol><h2>Feeling punched</h2><p>If you''ve ever felt metaphorically "punched in the face" by someone online: I know how much it sucks.</p><p>If anything, I hope this post helps you realize:</p><ul><li>You''re not alone (this abuse happens to a lot of people).</li><li>Abusive behavior is not OK.</li><li>Comments from a toxic person have nothing to do with you</li></ul><p>Ignore the haters.<br></p><p>Cheers,<br>Justin Jackson<br><a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p>'
  -
    type: newsletter
seo:
  description: 'How to identify toxic people (and toxicity in your own life)'
  image: /assets/toxic-people.jpg
id: 3f741cba-4ba1-46e5-b9f7-6a65e840bcb7
