title: 'We sell saddles here'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>I recently re-read Stewart Butterfield''s famous essay, <a href="https://medium.com/@stewart/we-dont-sell-saddles-here-4c59524d650d">We Don''t Sell Saddle Here</a>.</p><p>Back in 2013, this was his manifesto to folks building Slack, two weeks before its initial release.</p><p>Under the headline "Sell the innovation, not the product," Stewart says pointedly:</p><blockquote><p>"What we are selling is not the software product. We’re selling organizational transformation."</p></blockquote><p>This quote distills the difference between VC-backed and bootstrapped startups.</p><p>VC-backed startups are trying to create wholesale changes in human behavior. They''re not selling "software," they''re selling "organizational change."</p><p>In this same section, Stewart continues:</p><blockquote><p>"What we are selling is <strong>not</strong> the software product. People buy “software” to address a need they already know they have or perform some specific task they need to perform, whether that is tracking sales contacts or editing video."</p></blockquote><p>This is where bootstrapped startups are different! We''re not trying to create new paradigms; we''re looking to "address a need customers already know they have."</p><p>Put another way:</p><p><strong>The goal of bootstrapping is not to change the way people behave.</strong></p><p>Funded startups are raising gobs of money because they''re trying to do something profoundly difficult: change the way people think, feel, and act.</p><p>But we bootstrappers don''t have enough money or time to do that work.</p><p>Instead, it''s our job to recognize where people are already in motion and build solutions for the direction they''re headed.</p><p>We don''t create the waves; we ride them.</p><p>Cheers,<br>Justin Jackson<br><a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p>'
  -
    type: newsletter
seo:
  description: 'The goal of bootstrapping is not to change the way people behave.'
  image: /assets/we-sell-saddles-slack.jpg
id: 95468ae1-7c55-4da2-9fa0-44c2f4c8b74a
