title: 'Why growing old in tech is hard'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>👋 Hi Laracon friends. This year, I gave a personal talk about growing old in tech, becoming jaded and depressed, and how I overcame it.</p>'
  -
    type: html_embed
    embed_code: '<style>.embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; margin-bottom:25px; } .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }</style><div class=''embed-container''><iframe src=''https://www.youtube.com/embed//AfEBby1KRyU?rel=0'' frameborder=''0'' allowfullscreen></iframe></div>'
  -
    type: text
    text: '<h2>Two emails I received</h2><p>Initially, I wasn''t sure I was going to talk about this on stage in New York. But I received two messages from readers that resonated deeply with me:</p><h3>First email</h3><blockquote><p>I''m 47 and I''m kind of freaked out that I am close to my professional peak. I''m still in the trenches as a senior developer. I''m not a team leader or manager of any kind. I''m coming to that age where it''s harder to keep up with the younger devs.</p></blockquote><h3>Second email:</h3><blockquote><p>The older I get, the more worried I become. It feels like I''ve been struggling for a long time. It''s been one startup failure after another. It feels like everyone is moving ahead whereas I''m being left behind.</p></blockquote><p>This line, in particular, hit me hard:&nbsp;<strong><em>It feels like everyone is moving ahead whereas I''m being left behind.</em></strong><strong><em><br></em></strong></p><p>I''ve definitely felt that way.</p><p>From age 35 on, I felt that more and more.</p><p>When Taylor Otwell asked me to speak at Laracon this year, I decided to take a risk.</p><p>I wrote a talk about what it was like being in my late 30s; and how I felt I was being left behind.</p><p>I showed how those feelings lead to me being jaded, bitter, and depressed.</p><p>Then I shared a bit about what helped me overcome those feelings.</p><p>Before I gave the talk I was in agony about it. "This is a conference for PHP devs, they don''t want to hear this!"</p><p>At the beginning of the talk, I was nervous. I said a few things that I wish I''d left out. But as I spoke, I could tell that it was resonating.</p><p>After the talk, I had dozens of folks approach me to tell me their stories. They told me: "I''ve felt that way too."</p><p>When the video from the talk was published, I was apprehensive about sharing it too much. It''s vulnerable talk. Some of it, I wish I could have changed.</p><p>But people kept finding it and saying things like:</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/dougblackjr.png
    size: md
    brutalized: false
    clickable_image_url: 'https://twitter.com/dougblackjr/status/1164948326518796290'
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>So I''ve decided to share it with you.</p><p><strong><a href="https://el2.convertkit-mail.com/c/preview/o2ikhwu3/aHR0cHM6Ly95b3V0dS5iZS9BZkVCYnkxS1J5VQ==" target="_blank">You can watch it here on YouTube</a></strong></p><p>If it resonates with you, feel free to comment on the video, or <a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin/status/1164647680456323072">reply to this tweet</a>. I''m happy to chat about it.</p><p>Cheers,<br>Justin Jackson<br><a href="https://el2.convertkit-mail.com/c/preview/pxtehquk/aHR0cHM6Ly90d2l0dGVyLmNvbS9taWp1c3Rpbg==" target="_blank">@mijustin</a></p><p>If you''d like my slides you can <a href="http://justinjackson.ca/assets/laracon-2019-compressed.pdf">download them here</a>.</p>'
  -
    type: newsletter
seo:
  title: 'Justin Jackson''s talk at Laracon 2019'
  description: 'This year, I gave a personal talk about growing old in tech, becoming jaded and depressed, and how I overcame it.'
  image: /assets/justin-jackson-laracon-talk-2019.jpg
id: be5db695-90d1-4805-8731-4baeb2e0ebb3
