title: 'Change your market, save your product'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>The father of my daughter''s friend is an <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arborist">arborist</a>. He makes his living pruning and caring for trees, and he''s owned his own business for 12 years.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/tree-cutting-arborist-lumberjack.jpg
    size: xl
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>His first years of business were tough. He was grinding hard, and working long hours, but wasn't earning a substantial amount of revenue.</p><p>And then, he found his solution.</p><blockquote><p><strong>He changed his phone number.</strong></p></blockquote><p>Up until then he'd been focused on his&nbsp;local market. But there was a problem: most of them were retired farmers. There's nothing wrong with farmers, but they're DIYers. If their trees need pruning they do it themselves.</p><p>However, looking at a map he saw an opportunity.</p><p><strong>There was an affluent suburb located twenty minutes away.</strong>&nbsp;Most of the residents were executives. They didn't have time to care for their trees; they <strong>needed&nbsp;</strong>someone to do it for them, and they have the <strong>money</strong>&nbsp;to pay for it.</p><p>So, here's what he did:</p><ul><li>He switched his phone number to a number local to that suburb.</li><li>He opened up a PO box there as well.&nbsp;</li><li>He started advertising in their yellow pages (this was in the 90s), and their local paper.<br></li></ul><p><strong>The result? </strong>The next year, 95% of his revenue comes from this new market.</p><p>In hindsight, it seems obvious:<strong>&nbsp;</strong></p><blockquote><p><strong>Find a group of people who want your service, and have the money to pay for it</strong>.&nbsp;</p></blockquote><p>Maybe your product is fine, but you haven't found the right customer.</p><h3>Target a new market for your software product</h3><p>One of my SaaS clients had been toiling away&nbsp;in the B2C market for years. Their product was $19/month, and just wasn't profitable.</p><p>To make matters worse, they were attracting hobbyists and prosumers that were hard to please. These customers kept chewing up hours of customer support time.</p><p><strong>So we decided to change their target market.</strong>&nbsp;</p><p>We focused on a new B2B niche. Then we took these steps:</p><ul><li>We cancelled their freemium plan.</li><li>We raised their base price to $99/month.<br></li><li>We chose a new brand name.</li><li>We re-did all of their website's copy so it spoke to the new target market.</li></ul><p>The results? Revenue increased, and customer support decreased!</p><p>Before you throw in the towel on your startup, it might be worth tweaking your product, and offering it to a new market.<br></p><p>Cheers,<br>
      Justin Jackson<br>
      <a href="http://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p><p>PS: want more? Check out my book!&nbsp;<a href="http://devmarketing.xyz">You can download a 21 page sample here.</a></p>
  -
    type: newsletter
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p><i>This blog post was originally published on July 29th, 2011. It''s been updated since then.</i></p>'
seo:
  title: 'Change your market, save your product'
  description: 'One small location change made a 20X improvement in this guy''s business.'
  image: /assets/content/tree-cutting-arborist-lumberjack.jpg
author: Justin
dsq_thread_id: '527158497'
_wpas_skip_3416642: '1'
_zilla_featured_post: 'off'
_zilla_gallery_transition: fade
_zilla_gallery_timeout: '0'
_zilla_image_ids: 'false'
_zilla_quote_image_darken: 'off'
_zilla_seo_robots_index: index
_zilla_seo_robots_follow: follow
id: e528a81e-2b1a-44a5-ba1a-bc0f48df14a0
