title: 'Not all products make good businesses'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Product people are fixers. Our goal is to improve people''s lives with software, so we''re always hunting for opportunities.</p><p>So when we see a problem that''s screaming to be solved, we can''t resist.</p><p>We''ll say: "This is something that needs to exist. People need it!"</p><p>But, finding a paint point, and fixing it, isn''t enough.</p><p>Jason Cohen points this out in his <a href="https://blog.asmartbear.com/kung-fu.html">latest essay</a>:</p><blockquote><p><i>Most of the time, real pain points addressed by great products are not a business</i>. Which is why founders confidently begin and are surprised when it fails.</p></blockquote><p>You might fix a problem people have, but that doesn''t you can do it profitably.</p><p>Jason''s point is reflected in <a href="https://makermag.com/2019/02/25/indie-makers-money/">this survey data</a>&nbsp;from MakerMag:</p><ul><li>50% of indie makers don''t earn any money from their products.</li><li>40% are earning some income.</li><li>Only 10% are making a full-time income.</li></ul>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/indie-makers-revenue.png
    size: md
    brutalized: true
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>The hard reality is that most product ideas won''t make sustainable, full-time businesses.</p><p>Most successful product people had to go through multiple attempts before they found their winning idea.</p><p>For example, Josh Pigford <a href="https://joshpigford.com/projects">recently posted</a> a list of the 50+ projects he''s started over the last 15 years:</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/josh-pigford-projects-tiny.png
    size: md
    brutalized: true
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Of the 50 projects he started, only five are currently active. That''s a 10% "success rate."</p><p>Likewise, Basecamp has started multiple products over the years:</p><ul><li>Basecamp Classic (2004)<br></li><li>Writeboard (2005)</li><li>Ta-da List (2005)</li><li>Backpack (2005)</li><li>Campfire (2006)</li><li>Highrise (2007)</li><li>Sortfolio (2009)</li><li>Breeze (2012)</li><li>Basecamp Next (2012)</li><li>Know Your Company (2013)</li><li>WeWorkRemotely.com (2014)</li><li>Basecamp 3 (2015)</li></ul><p>Currently, they''re only focusing on Basecamp 3. Everything else has been sold, spun off, or retired. That''s an 8% "success rate."</p><p>According to Jason Cohen, for a product to become a business you''ll need <b>numerous potential customers:</b></p><ul><li>Who realize they have the problem you''re solving.<br></li><li>You can reach at a reasonable cost.</li><li>You can convince to become customers</li></ul><p>And you have to do all of this, "at a profitable price, against existing market dynamics, and last for years."</p><p><b>It''s hard.</b></p><p>Which is why it''s imperative that you do the hard work up-front before you become 100% invested in an idea.</p><p>Most of your time, in the beginning, needs to be spent with potential customers. As <a href="https://tomtunguz.com/competitive-questions">Tomasz Tunguz notes</a>, you want to find their "top three priorities."&nbsp;</p><blockquote><p>No one has enough time in their jobs to attend to the fifth or sixth most important thing today.</p></blockquote><p>Help customers make progress in areas that are <b>really </b>important to them. Those are the products that turn into good businesses.</p><p>One of my favorite ways to discover what''s important to customers is to ask them:</p><ul><li>What software do you pay for every year? Why?</li><li>Have you bought any products lately? Why? Did it meet your expectations?</li><li>Have you switched from one product to another? When did that happen? What caused the switch?</li><li>What''s a product you canceled recently? Why did you cancel?</li></ul><p>Their answers will give you clues about their priorities.</p><p>For example, if they''re buying software that helps them with their email newsletter, <a href="https://transistor.fm/?via=justin">podcast</a>, blog, social media, and ad management, you can bet they value marketing.</p><p>Remember: <b>this kind of groundwork takes time.</b></p><p>Josh Pigford spent fifteen years before he landed on <a href="https://baremetrics.com/">Baremetrics</a>. It took 37signals eleven years to produce Basecamp 3.</p><p>Don''t get too discouraged if you don''t succeed on your first try!</p><p>Cheers,<br>Justin Jackson<br><a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p>'
  -
    type: newsletter
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p><b>Post-note:</b></p><p><a href="https://twitter.com/rk">Ryan King</a>, an engineer at CZI Science, notes that <b>hard technical problems </b>don''t necessarily translate into <b>profitable businesses.&nbsp;</b></p><blockquote><p>"People sometimes mistake <i>hard problems</i> (in the computer science sense) for <i>valuable problems</i>(in the business sense). Sometimes that venn diagram overlaps (like Google''s search algorithms). But there''s a number of cases where there''s a really valuable problem, but it''s not particularly hard on the technology side (AirBnB is an example of this)."</p></blockquote><p><i>This post was originally published on April 2, 2014. It''s been updated since then.</i></p>'
seo:
  title: 'Solving problems customers will pay for'
  description: 'You might fix a problem, but that doesn''t mean people will pay for it.'
  image: /assets/failed-products-successful-product.jpg
author: Justin
_wpas_skip_3416642: '1'
id: b202d995-856f-45cb-ba51-5b43695ecc9e
