title: 'You don''t learn until you ship'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>Someone on <a href="https://justinjackson.ca/newsletter/">my email list</a>&nbsp;asked me: "How do you get over perfectionist tendencies, and put stuff out there?"</p><p>The first thing&nbsp;out of my head was:</p><blockquote><p>"You don't really learn until you ship."</p></blockquote><p>You can tinker with something, and try to get it perfect. But until you get real-world feedback on it, you won't really know how valuable it is. The longer you sit on a project, the more it festers. Putting it out in public, and seeing people's response, is what gives your work oxygen.</p><p><strong>The other thing I've learned:</strong> the more frequently you ship, the easier it gets. Shipping small updates, more frequently, is like putting in your reps at the gym.&nbsp;</p><p>The best way to start? I try to put something (small) out in public every day. For me, this can be a bit of code, a tweet, a forum response, a blog post, a podcast. For you, it could mean sharing some code on <a href="https://codepen.io/">CodePen</a>, hosting a meetup, or doing a livestream.</p><p>Ship something small every day. Eventually, it will become a habit, and you won't overthink it anymore.</p><p>(At least, this is what's worked for me).</p><p>Hope this helps you too,<br>
      Justin Jackson<br>
      <a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p>
  -
    type: newsletter
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p><i>This article was originally published&nbsp;on July 3rd, 2016. It''s been updated since then.</i></p>'
seo:
  description: 'How do you get over perfectionist tendencies, and put stuff out there?'
  image: /assets/just-ship-it.jpg
author: Justin
id: a3268b67-4e6a-4779-9c10-d31d77f407f6
