title: 'The main thing'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>At a restaurant, almost everyone orders the entree.
      Some folks order appetizers and even fewer will order dessert.&nbsp;</p>
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/main-entree.jpg
    size: inline
    brutalized: false
    clickable_image_url: 'https://twitter.com/mijustin/status/1219791119178817536'
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Every market has a “main product,” as well as items that are ancillary to that main thing. And, unless the main market is huge, it’s hard to make a business from the ancillary market.</p><h2>The indie software market</h2><p>If you''re hoping to build an independent software business, I think it''s best to focus on your category''s main dish (as opposed to a side-dish).</p><h3>Case study: Upscribe</h3><p>For example, my friend Josh Anderton built a tool called <a href="https://upscri.be/">Upscribe</a>, which offered "newsletter subscribe forms for Medium." Finding that too narrow of a focus, he eventually expanded by offering general-purpose embeddable forms. You could hook these forms up to MailChimp or ConvertKit.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/upscribe-website-2018-bw.png
    size: md
    brutalized: false
    clickable_image_url: 'https://upscri.be/'
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>The problem? His service wasn''t the main dish. In his category, email newsletters, having a fancy embeddable form is ancillary to the main thing: creating and sending the emails.</p><p>He''s recently pivoted. Now, in addition to beautiful forms, you can create and send email newsletters from Upscribe. Instead of offering a "nice-to-have" application, Josh is moving Upscribe into the "must-have" category.</p><h3>Exceptions to the rule</h3><p>In some product categories (email inbox), the “main thing” is so big (Gmail), that you can build an ancillary add-on and do well. The <a href="https://connect.clearbit.com/">Clearbit</a> add-on for Gmail proves this.</p><p>Steve Jobs infamously lambasted Dropbox for being a "feature, not a product:"</p><blockquote><p>"Steve started trolling us a little bit, saying we''re a feature, not a product, and telling us a bunch of things like that we don''t control an operating system so we''re going to be disadvantaged." – Drew Houston, founder of Dropbox</p></blockquote><p>However, the file-synchronization market turned out to be huge (Dropbox reportedly had more than 500 million users in 2016).&nbsp;</p><p>The size and momentum of a given category will determine whether an add-on product can be profitable. Here are other examples of big categories that often have room for ancillary products:</p><ul><li><b>Ecommerce</b> – this category is so big. You can build a great business (like <a href="https://carthook.com/">Carthook</a>) even if you''re not providing the main thing (Shopify).</li><li><br></li></ul><p>But in many categories, the market’s just not big enough to create that level of demand. Everyone orders the entree, but not enough people order dessert.</p><p><br></p><p><br></p>'
id: 76edb8ea-9475-4ecd-87da-69ce2ece29fa
