title: 'Good idea or bad idea?'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>I''ve worked on hundreds of business ideas that didn''t work out. Exploring these ideas lead me to where I am today, but I''m glad I didn''t stick with them.<br></p>'
  -
    type: sidebar
    text: |
      What makes a business idea "bad?"
      
      _An idea is bad when it takes too much effort and time to achieve (and sustain) the desired results._
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>For example, in my early twenties, I started a snowboard shop. I invested as much time and money as I could into the business. But each additional ounce of effort didn''t produce more revenue or better margins. The business itself was needy. It needed a huge amount of energy just to keep it afloat: rent paid, inventory ordered, employees scheduled. It was like treading water with a weight chained to my feet.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/business-stress.jpg
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>There's a danger in sticking with bad ideas for too long. You keep investing in the business, hoping that it will turn the corner, but it never really gains traction.</p><p>Bad ideas are <i>hungry</i>: they consume whatever energy, money, or time you throw at them, without giving you anything back.</p><blockquote><p>"This is the ultimate paradox with startups –&nbsp;<i>not yet</i>&nbsp;vs.&nbsp;<i>never</i>. Persistence is good but eventually becomes delusion." –&nbsp;<a href="https://twitter.com/HolfolioBen/status/1296565549619699713">Ben Kinnard</a></p></blockquote><p><b>On the other hand...</b></p><p>Good business ideas sweep you up with their momentum.&nbsp;</p><p>You don't have to carry them; they carry you.
      
      You apply the same effort to them, but they produce 100x the results.</p><p>When you're working on a good idea, you can feel the velocity increasing; like a river that starts slow and then gets faster.</p><p>My friend <a href="https://twitter.com/seanwes/status/1296610581386891264">Sean McCabe</a> recently experienced this. "After 6 years of not feeling this feeling, and then finally experiencing this feeling, I can vouch for what you’re saying," he told me. "For all those years," he continued, "it was a 10 out of 10 difficulty level—working so hard and just barely getting by." But now, with his <a href="https://seanwes.com/contact/?inquiry_type=seanwes%20media">new business</a>, he feels like he's exerting 10% of his previous effort, but getting 10x the results.</p><p><b>How do you get to a good idea?</b></p><blockquote><p>"Prioritize exploration over iteration." – <a href="https://twitter.com/nickwritesit/status/1296572227488546822">Nick Moore</a></p></blockquote><p>To get to a successful idea, you're going to need to try many things. The key is to not get stuck on something that's not working.</p><p>A good business idea has these characteristics:</p><ul><li>Has demonstrated strong market demand ☑️<br></li><li>Multiplies your effort and returns healthy profit margins ☑️</li><li>Is a fit for you as a founder (your skills, experience, network) ☑️</li></ul><p><br></p>
id: e785456a-8429-45ec-bb4f-3c82280c6d8a
