title: 'Clearing up some misconceptions'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Some folks seem to misunderstand what I mean when I say:&nbsp;</p><blockquote><p>"Go after a market with strong demand."&nbsp;</p></blockquote><p>Here''s what I''m <b>not</b> saying:</p><p>✘ "Build a product in a popular market."</p><p>✘ "Build a product in a market with lots of competitors."</p><p>✘ "Build a copycat when you notice a product doing well."</p><h2>The shape of a good opportunity</h2><p>When I talk about a "market" I''m describing <i>the sum of demand</i> for a particular thing:&nbsp;</p><ol><li>Number of potential customers</li><li>How much they spend</li><li>The frequency at which they buy</li><li>Their willingness to pay</li></ol><p><b>Building a new product is an enormous risk.</b> You''re risking your time and energy (which you''ll never get back), the investment of your own capital, and potentially lost wages.</p><p>So before you build a product, you want to see some <i>evidence of demand</i>. Essentially, you need to know:</p><blockquote><p>"Is there a strong desire by a group of people for this product to exist?"</p></blockquote><p>Often, you''ll notice opportunities in existing categories. There''s evidence that folks are already buying, but they''re itching for a better solution.&nbsp;</p><p>However, sometimes, the category doesn''t exist yet! In these cases, you might notice a group putting considerable effort into hacking together their own solution. (<a href="https://justinjackson.ca/today">Feedback Panda</a> is a good example of this).<br></p><h3>Examples of demand</h3><p>In the past, I''ve used examples to illustrate this concept. For example, in my town you can see evidence of "demand for coffee" because there are lineups outside many of the coffee shops.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/ratio-coffee-donut-line-vernon.jpg
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Compared to alternatives (tea and milkshakes) there is more demand for coffee.</p><p>However, the point of this example isn''t that you should go start a coffee shop. No!&nbsp;</p><p>My examples are <i>illustrative</i>, not prescriptive.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/examples-of-successful-bootstrapped.png
    size: md
    brutalized: false
    clickable_image_url: 'https://twitter.com/mijustin/status/1303890067681804290'
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>Likewise, when I use examples of successful companies it's for&nbsp;<i>context</i>. I'm not advising that you go and try to start a similar product in a similar market just because it worked for them!&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;Don't ride their wave, find your own.</p><h3>The right opportunity, at the right time, for the right person</h3><p>Most successful founders saw an opportunity at the right time and had the skills, connections, and resources to take advantage of it.&nbsp;</p><p><br></p><p>"Market with demand" ≠ "Popular" or "easy" market&nbsp;</p><p>Most good opportunities are not obvious (especially to outsiders).
      
      You're looking for evidence of unmet demand in a category that you understand!</p><h2>The founder is the surfer</h2><p>Without a wave, a surfer's skill is worthless.</p><p>However, when a surfer spots an oncoming wave, their ability to ride it depends on how good they are, their position in the water, etc.&nbsp;</p><p>Likewise, the skills, network, timing, and execution of the founding team <i>do</i> matter.</p>
  -
    type: sidebar
    text: |
      It doesn't matter how good of a surfer you are. **No wave? No surfing.**
      
      It doesn't matter how talented of a founder you are. **No demand? No business.**
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>I'm not advocating that anybody go head-to-head with incumbents unless they truly have the ability to do so.
      
      Beginner surfers shouldn't compete with Kelly Slater. But, if you're Italo Ferreira... go for it!</p>
id: 16fe3cac-0aad-4e30-bf8f-6290898a8ebc
