title: 'Your idea matters'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>John Doerr, a venture capitalist, is credited with saying:&nbsp;</p><p><i>"Ideas are easy. Execution is everything."</i></p><p>I disagree.</p><p><b>If ideas are so easy, why are most business ideas so bad?&nbsp;</b></p><h2>Why your idea matters</h2><p>The market you choose, and the idea that you focus on, are the most important business decisions you’ll make. They determine your trajectory.&nbsp;</p><p>Yes, how you execute is a part of that, but your ceiling for success is set by the idea itself.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/the-value-of-a-good-idea.png
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>When an author says: “I have an idea for my next book” the success of that book largely depends on the concept they’ve chosen.
      
      The same is true in business.</p><p>The risk with overemphasizing “execution” is it deludes people into thinking that if they work hard enough they can make any idea successful. It’s just not true.&nbsp;</p><p>If you don’t believe me, go browse old listings on Product Hunt. 
      
      You’ll see page after page of beautifully executed products that never achieved meaningful traction.
      
      There have been thousands of ideas posted; most failed.&nbsp;</p><p>There are tons of tech people who are skilled at building software but struggle to build good software businesses.
      
      The difference is in the quality of their ideas.</p><p>We often compare ideas to seeds. But a bad seed can’t grow into a plant; only a good seed can.&nbsp;
      </p><p>Got a bad idea? Don’t spend lots of time fertilizing it, watering it, and trying to get it to grow. No! Throw it away.
      
      Focus on cultivating good ideas and helping them grow.&nbsp;</p><h2>Finding a good idea is not easy</h2><p>I know talented makers who had to hunt for years before they found a good idea.&nbsp;</p><p>Identifying a good business opportunity is often the culmination of:</p><ul><li>the experiences you’ve had,</li><li>the markets you’ve observed,</li><li>the customers you’ve listened to,</li><li>the experiments you’ve run.&nbsp;</li></ul><p>Good ideas are not easy to find. And often, you have to wait for them to appear.&nbsp;</p><p>The problem is, most of us are impatient and want to <i>execute</i> as soon as possible, so we pick the first idea that comes to mind.</p><p>On Twitter, lots of folks told me: "But generating ideas is easy!"</p><p>Yes, coming up with low-quality ideas is easy. But being able to see the shape of a good opportunity is hard. (In the same way that noticing a wave from the beach is easy, but being able to <a href="/surfing">identify a good swell to surf</a> is difficult).</p><h2><br></h2><p>Execution&nbsp;</p><p>Programming frameworks like Laravel and Rails have made it easier to build a web app. Design frameworks like Tailwind have helped us produce high-quality UIs. Infrastructure like AWS has helped us scale. We collect payments with Stripe. We can incorporate a company with the push of a button with Atlas.</p><p>What's left? The quality of our ideas and how we</p><p>If execution means "the carrying out or putting into effect of a plan, order, or course of action," it's never been easier.</p><p>When it comes to building apps and starting businesses, executing is easier than ever.&nbsp;</p><h2>Putting our ideas into action</h2><p>For many people, validating an idea is a part of the "execution" step. They'll build an MVP, put it out into the market, and measure the response. If the response is bad, they'll try to iterate on the original idea (or pivot).</p><p>Execution means "to put a concept into action."&nbsp;</p><h2>Work on ideas that matter</h2><p><br></p><p>Cheers,<br>Justin Jackson<br><a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p>
  -
    type: newsletter
id: 0c7587e9-4ebb-4eb0-8f5b-a72839914dae
