title: 'Better future'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>In the past couple of weeks, I've focused my writing on the economic devastation caused by the coronavirus pandemic (<a href="https://justinjackson.ca/fight-amazon">Fight Amazon</a>, <a href="https://justinjackson.ca/exposed">We've Been Exposed</a>). Last week I said:</p><blockquote><p>Our society ain't right.
      
      And I don't want to just complain about it, I want us to do something about it. What can we do to help tilt the playing field, so it's fair for small businesses?</p></blockquote><p>The problem is that the cards are stacked against small businesses. In a <a href="https://thisten.co/ltmam">recent episode</a> of his podcast, Seth Godin talks about Karl Marx:<br></p>
  -
    type: sidebar
    text: |
      Karl Marx is different than Marxism. Karl Marx was an Economist who thought very deeply about a lot of critical issues. And, in fact, he agreed with Adam Smith, father of the free market, and with Schumpeter, father of Creative Destruction, in a whole bunch of different ways.
      
      What Karl Marx did after he did the math was realize that Capitalism was a system that was inevitably going to take everything it could from the worker. 
      
      That once a capitalist finds a machine that is efficient, it is in his or her interest to use that machine and to pay workers less. Or, if there is no machine, it's in the capitalist's interests to pit workers against one another to pay them as little as possible. Because if you own the Means of Production, the factory, you have something that workers don't have – which is the Means of Production. So if you can pit workers against each other, and they will bid down and down to get the job, you come out ahead.
      
      He saw this and said, "Workers of the world unite. Because if you don't, the Capitalists will simply take more".
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>It''s this line that makes me particularly worried about Jeff Bezos and Amazon:</p><blockquote><p>If you own the factory, you have something that workers don''t have – which is the Means of Production. So if you can pit workers against each other, and they will bid down and down to get the job, you come out ahead.</p></blockquote><p>In today''s modern world, the factories have become commodities. What Amazon owns is far more valuable: they own the Means of Distribution. Here, Amazon''s has two major strengths:</p><ul><li><b>Physical distribution:</b> their warehouses, distribution centers, and logistics.</li><li><b>Software platform:</b> their storefront, cloud architecture, search engine, and traffic.</li></ul><p>Since 1994, Amazon has invested billions of investor money (and most of its profits) into creating the world''s largest marketplace.</p><p>And it''s not just a "big marketplace;" it''s a behemoth.&nbsp;</p><p>Numerous readers tried to convince me that most small businesses would be better off to use Amazon''s fulfillment and marketplace than pursue a viable alternative.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/better-to-join-amazon.png
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Their point is: "Amazon already has the distribution, why would a small business sell anywhere else?"<br></p><p><br></p><p><b>Today I want to start exploring solutions.</b></p>'
id: f1c924c9-5ab5-4f9e-a225-9915e5f5d684
