title: 'How do I find customers for my SaaS?'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p><b>I think we need to stop trying to find customers for our products and start building solutions our customers are already searching for.</b></p><p>There''s a big difference between asking "How do I find customers for my product?" and "<i>Who’s already searching for a product like mine?"</i></p><p>Some businesses have to really grind to sell anything. They''re shouting from the street corner: "please come and buy something from me!"</p><p>But other businesses don''t have to try to convince people. People are already actively seeking what they have to sell. They open their store''s doors, and there''s a line of people waiting to buy.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/people-waiting-in-line-outside-store-small.jpg
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Marketing your product is a lot easier when you build something people are already looking for:</p><ul><li><b>How do I get notified in Slack every time I get a new Stripe payment? </b>"Try <a href="https://zapier.com/">Zapier</a>!"</li><li><b>How can my customers record a video for me? </b>"Have you seen <a href="https://zipmessage.com/">ZipMessage</a>?"</li><li><b>What''s the best podcast hosting service? </b>"You should use <a href="https://transistor.fm/?via=justin">Transistor</a>."</li></ul><p>When you build something that has existing demand, folks will come to you. You don''t have to work as hard to find customers. They''ve already decided to buy; they''re just figuring out who to buy it from!</p><p>But if you build something with weak demand, you''ll have to do a lot of work just to get people to take a look at it.</p><p>One hack for figuring out if there''s demand is to ask: "<b>are people already searching for a solution on Google?"</b></p><p>Today, if you need something, where do you go first? You use a search engine; whether it''s Google, Amazon, or the App Store. If people aren''t searching for it, they probably don''t want it.</p><p><br></p><p>Make something that people will line up for. (I explain how in <a href="https://justinjackson.ca/build">this article</a>).</p><p>Hope this helps you on your journey,<br>Justin Jackson<br><a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p>'
  -
    type: newsletter
seo:
  title: 'How do I find customers for my SaaS?'
  description: 'I think we need to stop trying to find customers for our products and start building solutions our customers are already searching for.'
  image: /assets/content/people-waiting-in-line-outside-store-small.jpg
id: d61b6a75-3a1a-4121-b907-7b040ed9afd5
