title: 'How many units can you sell?'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>If you''re selling anything online, pay attention to these two variables:</p><ol><li><b>Unit economics:</b> how profitable is one "unit" of your product or service? (one digital download, one month of MRR)</li><li><b>Sales volume:</b> how many units can you sell every month?</li></ol><h2>Case study: iTunes vs Spotify revenue</h2><h3>Unit economics</h3><p>In the early 2000s, indie musicians could make pretty good money selling tracks on iTunes.</p><p>iTunes sold tracks for $0.99 and gave artists $0.69.</p><p>But by 2012, Spotify was grabbing significant market share (with 20 million total active users).</p><p>Unit economics worked differently on Spotify: they paid between $0.00331 and $0.00437&nbsp;per stream.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/rev-per-unit.png
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>Proft margin per unit had gone way down (a ~99% decrease).</p><p>This means the artist has to work harder (stream more units) in order to make the same revenue.</p><p>The band Pamplemoose experienced this very thing, as frontman Jack Conte explained to <a href="https://www.happyscribe.com/public/how-i-built-this-with-guy-raz/patreon-jack-conte-and-sam-yam#paragraph_1517?utm_source=public_transcript&amp;utm_medium=paragraph&amp;utm_campaign=public_promo">Guy Raz</a>:</p><blockquote><p>The transition to streaming was really hard.
      Our streaming revenue was a tiny fraction of our iTunes revenue.&nbsp;The volume [of streams] wasn't making up for it. And so, you know, the income started to evaporate.</p></blockquote><h3>The importance of sales volume</h3><p>On iTunes, an artist needed to sell 3,623 tracks to earn $2,500 in a month.</p><p>But on Spotify, to earn the same amount, she needs to get 755,287 streams.</p><p>Because of poor unit economics, the volume required to hit baseline has gone WAY up.</p>
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/monthly-sales-needed.png
    size: inline
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: '<h3>How many customers can you reasonably reach?</h3><p>Kevin Kelly introduced the idea of&nbsp;<a href="https://kk.org/thetechnium/1000-true-fans/">1,000 true fans</a>:</p><blockquote><p>To be a successful creator, you don’t need millions. You need only thousands of true fans.</p></blockquote><p>But the reality is making a living, especially as a musician, from just 1,000 people is difficult:</p><ul><li>On iTunes, to hit $2,500 per month in revenue, each of your fans would need to buy 3-4 new tracks per month.</li><li>On Spotify, <i>every</i> fan would need to stream your music 755 times each month.</li></ul><p>The truth is, most products (and most artists) have a natural "audience size."</p><p>If your potential market stays the same size, but your revenue per unit decreases, that''s a recipe for trouble.</p><p>That''s exactly what happened with Spotify and streaming, as artist Sharky Laguana explained to <a href="https://www.theringer.com/tech/2019/1/16/18184314/spotify-music-streaming-service-royalty-payout-model">The Ringer</a>:</p><blockquote><p>"Something’s off when you can have the same audience size as you did 20 years ago but you’re making a fraction of the money."</p></blockquote><h2>SaaS founder and digital creators</h2><p>So what does this mean for SaaS founders and creators selling digital products? You have two levers for earning more income:</p><ol><li><b>Volume:</b> how badly do people want it?</li><li><b>Profit: </b>what are your price and costs?</li></ol><p>How does this work if you wanted to, let''s say, earn $10,000 per month?</p><h3>Low-volume example</h3><p>If you want to earn $10K / month, with 80% margins, but you typically only get 5 sales per month, your price is going to need to be $2,500 / unit.<br></p><h3>High-volume example</h3><p>For most SaaS (software as a service) and other digital products (courses, ebooks, downloadable templates) you''ll need a high volume of sales.</p><p>If you want to make $10k / month, and your price is $25 (with 80% margins), you''ll need 400 monthly sales.</p><h2>Number of units sold x profit margin</h2><p>Many aspiring creators and founders are eager to sell things online, but they don''t stop to think about the numbers.</p><ol><li><b>How many units can I sell every month?</b> What distribution channels do I have access to? Who owns those channels? How big is my audience? Have I made something that a lot of these people want?</li><li><b>What price will people pay? </b>This is generally determined by the market. If customers are used to paying $19/month, it''s unlikely you''ll be able to charge them $1,999/month.</li><li><b>What are my costs per unit?</b>&nbsp;What are your variable costs? How much does it cost you to deliver a unit? iTunes was willing to pay $0.69 per song, but now Spotify (the dominant distributor) only pays between $0.00331 and $0.00437 per stream.</li></ol><p>Generally, you''re either in a low-volume business (with a high price), or a high-volume business (with low prices).&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;And (again, generally):</p><ul><li>Most consulting/services businesses are low-volume/high-price&nbsp;</li><li>Most SaaS/digital products businesses are high-volume/low-price</li></ul><p>Make sure you know which business you''re in, and charge accordingly!</p>'
  -
    type: newsletter
seo:
  description: 'If you''re selling anything online, pay attention to your unit economics'
  image: /assets/unit-economics.jpg
id: 20cca72e-3f55-45f0-96ae-0085d70ccf29
