title: 'The limits of conventional wisdom'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>All bits of wisdom have limits, boundaries, thresholds. </p><p>Usually, it's your individual context that will determine whether advice is wise (or unwise).</p><p>According to&nbsp;<a href="https://twitter.com/JamesClear/status/1431645749977231365">James Clear</a>, we should consider the limits of the wisdom you receive:</p><blockquote><p>Everything is an oversimplification. Reality is messy and complex.
      
      The question is whether it is a useful simplification.
      
      Know the limitations of an idea and you can apply it to great effect—despite the messiness of reality.</p></blockquote><p>I also like this idea <a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin/status/1469386579529461761">from Elizabeth Earnshaw</a> that a lot of popular wisdom has a "missing half."</p>
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/cover.jpg
    size: md
    brutalized: false
    clickable_image_url: 'https://twitter.com/mijustin/status/1469386579529461761'
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>A few of her examples:</p><ul><li>"You can''t change other people... *and* you might influence them to change."</li><li>"Self-care isn''t selfish... *and* sometimes we call things ''self care'' that actually are kind of selfish."</li></ul><p>You can see this dynamic at play in a lot of popular quotes we see on Twitter. For example, take this quote:</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/orange-tweet.png
    size: md
    brutalized: false
    clickable_image_url: 'https://twitter.com/orangebook_/status/1468590976923238400'
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>I''ve seen this quote shared a few times. However, it has a missing half:</p><p>"Too much comfort dulls the mind, <strong>and</strong>... <em>sometimes our minds really need comfort in order to thrive</em>."</p><p>I believe that good wisdom invites tension; it''s comfortable with duality, context, and nuance.</p><p>Cheers,<br>Justin Jackson<br><a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin">twitter.com/mijustin</a></p>'
  -
    type: newsletter
seo:
  title: 'The limits of conventional wisdom'
  description: 'All bits of wisdom have limits, boundaries, thresholds.'
  image: /assets/wisdom-limits.png
id: 262049ec-be24-451a-8e5e-91bc4fa372fa
