title: 'It might never go away'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>A blog post is one copy of your writing on a server. If you change your mind, you can update it (or remove it).</p><p><strong>Email newsletters are different; more dangerous.</strong></p><p>When you click "publish" thousands of copies are generated and sent to individual inboxes. Once you''ve sent an email, people can keep a copy of it in their archive, forever. You can''t take it back.</p><p>Podcast episodes are like this too: once you publish an episode to your feed, the MP3 can (theoretically) be downloaded onto thousands of devices. Even if I upload a new MP3 to the feed, it''s possible people have kept the old one.</p><p>When you tweet, there''s technically only one copy. But if someone screenshots your tweet, they can distribute it: people can make copies, and it can live forever.</p><p>A photo I take on my phone is just for me until I publish it online, and then it can be taken by others and duplicated so many times that it never goes away. </p><p>And, going back to my first example, I suppose that even a single version of a blog post can be copied and archived on Wayback Machine.</p><p>Publishing content on the internet is weird. </p><p>On one hand, I like creating, expressing ideas, and sharing stories. On the other hand, it''s weird to think of all these digital copies of stuff I''ve made just floating out there. </p><p>You delete stuff, but it might never be truly gone.</p>'
seo:
  title: 'It might never go away'
  description: 'When you click "publish" thousands of copies are generated and sent to individual inboxes. Once you''ve sent an email, people can keep a copy of it in their archive, forever. You can''t take it back.'
id: b1b82ea0-04a2-4b60-a42e-8b5c1dff3eb1
