title: 'Podcasts and Capital'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Here are a few of my thoughts on the podcast industry in 2021:</p><ul><li>Many participants and investors are acting as if podcasting is bigger than it really is</li><li>VCs and bigger companies in search of "the next YouTube" fundamentally misunderstand podcasting''s growth curve</li><li>Investors are way too bullish on Spotify''s strategy</li><li>Social audio apps (like Clubhouse and Twitter Spaces) won''t replace podcasting, and won''t gain widespread use</li></ul><h2>Podcasting''s growth curve</h2><p>Podcasting has been growing "slow &amp; steady" for a decade.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/monthly-podcast-listening-stats.png
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>In 2020, an estimated 104 million Americans listen to a podcast monthly. Last year it grew by 16%. The year before, it grew 23%. And from 2017-2018 it great by 8%.</p><p>These numbers are healthy! But you'll notice,&nbsp;there's no meteoric growth here.</p><p>Personally, I like this gradual growth curve. It's sustainable and shows that podcasting isn't a flash-in-the-pan.&nbsp;</p><p>Plus, I strongly believe&nbsp;that steady ecosystems are better for creators. You can build a long-lasting, sustainable revenue stream.
      
      (As long as Big Money™ doesn't mess it up).</p><h2>Is Big Money™ ruining podcasting?</h2><p>Investors are now looking to podcasting to provide them with YouTube-level returns. (For example, Sequoia earned a 57x return on its $9 million investment in YouTube).&nbsp;</p><p>However, I'm highly skeptical that podcasting is ever going to provide that kind of ROI. As I've shown above, podcasting's adoption curve is different than video, social, or blogging platforms.</p><p>The amount of money being invested into podcasting is puzzling. In the last 2 years, Spotify has <a href="https://www.nasdaq.com/articles/did-spotify-waste-%241-billion-on-podcasts-2021-01-21">spent $1 billion</a> on podcast acquisitions.</p><p>Keep in mind that in 2021, it's anticipated that podcast ad revenue will be $1 billion (it was $782 million in 2020).</p><p>There's a disconnect here.</p><p>I'm not the only one scratching their head at Spotify's podcast spending spree. 
      
      Analysts at <a href="https://www.cnbc.com/2021/01/15/spotifys-big-bet-on-podcasts-is-failing-citi-says.html">CITI</a> aren't impressed:&nbsp;</p><blockquote><p>"To date, we haven't seen a material positive inflection in app downloads or Premium subscriptions."</p></blockquote><p>But, investors keep driving up Spotify's stock price, and venture capitalists keeping investing millions in new audio startups.</p><h2>The overcapitalization risk</h2><p>I’m particularly worried about overcapitalization.&nbsp;</p><p>When investors pour $1 billion+ into a podcast ecosystem that didn’t have $1 billion in total revenue last year, that's a problem. They're hoping their money will add fuel to the fire, and supercharge podcasting's slow and steady growth.</p><p>But what happens if the growth, and the potential financial returns, don't materialize?</p><p>Overcapitalization occurs when the real value of an asset (or in this case, an ecosystem) is far less than what's been invested. It's when investors realize there's no possibility for a decent return, and they jump ship.</p><p>And overcapitalization has knock-on effects that won’t be good for podcasting:</p><ul><li>Capital is centralized with mega-corporations who try to grab as much market share as they can.</li><li>As a result, small, indie companies are acquired or have to shut down (because they can't compete).</li><li>In the short term, it's good for creators: productions get funded. But, when the bubble bursts,&nbsp;the creator/producer economy implodes. People lose their jobs. Media companies who were feeding on investor dollars close shop.<br></li></ul><p>Quibi is the perfect case study for overcapitalization. Founded by Jeffrey Katzenberg and Meg Whitman as a Netflix competitor, they quickly attracted funding and talent.</p><p>They ended up injecting $1.75 billion into the entertainment industry. But that kind of capitalization doesn’t do anyone any good if the business model isn't sustainable. Quibi failed and was <a href="https://arstechnica.com/gaming/2021/01/quibis-1-75b-experiment-ends-with-roku-acquisition-for-less-than-100m/">sold off</a> for less than $100 million.</p><p>Shows were canceled, <a href="https://twitter.com/katologic/status/1319237701233741824">people lost their jobs</a>, creative dreams were dashed.</p><h2>Quit trying to make the YouTube of podcasting</h2><p>VCs are particularly hungry for there to be a "centralized platform" for podcasting, where "discovery, consumption, and monetization can happen in the same place." That desire serves no one but VCs and the centralized platform. One centralized platform = bad for creators.</p><p>Currently, podcasters have leverage because they own the connection with their audience.
      
      YouTubers don't have that. They're at the whim of the algorithm and monetization gods.&nbsp;</p>
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/youtube-creators-punished-by-the-frontpage.png
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>&nbsp;Trading leverage for "more distribution" is like making a deal with the devil. The devil always wins.</p><p><br></p>'
seo:
  title: 'Podcasts & Capital'
  description: 'Thoughts on the podcast industry in 2021: investors are acting as if podcasting is bigger than it really is.'
id: 4bc282eb-cb1e-40fc-a1af-de9fa5f48626
