title: 'Tutorial: build a static landing page using Tailwind UI and deploy to Netlify'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<h2>How do I configure Tailwind CSS and Tailwind UI so I can build a simple HTML site?</h2><p>The easiest way I''ve found is to use:</p><ul><li><a href="https://vitejs.dev/">Vite.js</a>&nbsp;as a small frontend build tool</li><li><a href="https://tailwindcss.com/">Tailwind CSS</a> as the CSS framwork</li><li><a href="https://tailwindui.com/">Tailwind UI</a> for the pre-made design components (paid)</li><li><a href="https://github.com/alpinejs/alpine">Alpine.js</a> for small Javascript sprinkles</li><li><a href="https://github.com">Github</a> for hosting the repo and triggering builds</li><li><a href="https://netlify.com">Netlify</a> for hosting the static site</li></ul><h2>Tutorial video</h2>'
  -
    type: html_embed
    embed_code: '<style>.embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; } .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }</style><div class=''embed-container''><iframe src=''https://www.youtube.com/embed//41kqZYK3wRI?rel=0'' frameborder=''0'' allowfullscreen></iframe></div>'
  -
    type: text
    text: '<h2>The problems I encountered</h2><p>Previously, when I tried to configured Tailwind CSS for a new simple project, I would run into multiple configuration errors.&nbsp;</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/tailwind-install-errors.png
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>In retrospect, I didn''t know I needed to create a <code>package.json</code>&nbsp;file first. (Or how to create it properly).</p><p>Regardless, <a href="https://vitejs.dev/guide/">Vite.js</a> seems to solve a lot of my problems in that it takes care of a lot of the boilerplate code you need to start a project.</p><h2>Install and configure Vite.js</h2><p>Follow the instructions here: <a href="https://vitejs.dev/guide/">vitejs.dev/guide</a></p><p>First, go to your code projects folder. For me that, that''s <code>/code</code>. (It contains all my projects)</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/projects-folder.png
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>Don't create your new project's directory yet (Vite will do that). Start your Vite project like this:</p><p><b>With NPM:</b></p><p><code>$ npm init @vitejs/app
      </code></p><p><b>Or with Yarn:</b></p><p><code>$ yarn create @vitejs/app</code></p><p>Vite will ask you for a project name (this will be used as your project's folder name as well).</p>
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/node-2021-02-12-17-49-37.png
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Vite will also ask you to choose a template; <b>choose "Vanilla."</b></p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/node-2021-02-12-17-52-13.png
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Vite will now generate your project folder, and&nbsp;<code>index.html</code>&nbsp;, style.css, main.js, etc..</p><p>Now, get into your new folder (<code>cd new-folder</code>) and run <code>npm install</code>:</p>'
  -
    type: image
    size: md
    brutalized: false
    image: /assets/content/-bash-2021-02-15-15-59-17.png
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Once that''s done and you run <code>npm run dev</code>, Vite will fire up a local server for you:</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/esbuild-2021-02-15-16-01-08.png
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>In this case, I can open <code>http://localhost:3001/</code> in my Chrome, and <code>index.html</code> will load. This should auto-update as you make changes to your code.</p><h2>Install and configure Tailwind CSS</h2><p><br></p><p>'ve been using Tailwind for a while, but mostly on existing Transistor projects that Jon set up.</p><p>One thing that's eluded me so far:</p><p>mostly with Laravel projects, but I'm as a new developer, um, and really a full-time marketer before developer, I'm still trying to figure out how do I just build a basic landing page that I can put up on Netlify or versatile, or really any hosting platform, uh, with tailwind and specifically.
      
      These new marketing sections in tailwind UI, we have all of these great components and even full landing page examples that look incredible, but you know how if I wanted to use this and just put up a landing page today, how do I do it? I got on the phone with Adam wagon and he walked me through it. And I'm going to now relay that information to you, hopefully in a way that works for everybody.
      
      And I wanted to go beyond just linking to. The two tailwind via their CDN because you're missing out on the tooling, required to use some of these landing page templates. For example, we're going to have to extend tailwind config JS with some new attributes here, some color and some plugins. And you know, as soon as you go beyond vanilla tailwind, you can't just link to this anymore.
      
      So. Yeah, I've seen a lot of folks kind of start there and they can get started really quick. But how do you move beyond that? Actually get something that is, uh, generating the CSS and then even the JavaScript you might need to build stuff like this. So let's get started. What Adam recommended I use is something called Veet it's French for fast.
      
      It's a project by view. And we're going to click get started. So let's just start by copying this. Let's go into the command line here and I'm just going to go into my code projects, directory. This is all of my, my code projects, and I'm going to paste this in. It's going to ask for the project name and it's going to create a directory based on this name.
      
      So I'm going to call this craft. And we can select any of the templates, but we just want the vanilla templates. I could most, not most I could use the arrow keys to go up and down, but I'm just going to choose vanilla. Okay, so now it's done. We're going to go see D craft. They've got the instructions right here.
      
      Uh, now I'm going to go NPM install and it's going to install Veet and then we want to NPM run dev. All right. So now I should be able to, um, take this. I can, even Adam showed me this, I can hit command and then I can hit command and then click this and it all. Load the browser window. So local 3001 is what we want.
      
      I'm just going to put that here actually. So now I've got a local server running with Veit so that was pretty quick. Okay. All right. So I'm just going to hit control C kill that process. And now I'm going to open up my code editor in this directory. Uh, I'm using visual studio code. So I think I can just go code space.
      
      Dot. And it'll open up this directory here, so you can see, we already have an index file that V2 has generated. Um, node modules, main JS package dot Jason. It's all here. Uh, it's already been generated, and this is stuff that you would have to manually create. This is often what happens when you do the tailwind and installation.
      
      It's expecting package dot Jason to be already there. So if you don't have it. Um, you'll get a bunch of errors and, uh, this is nice. Cause V just generates it for you. All right. So now we're going to install tailwind. So I'm just on the tail end docs, install tailwind via NPM. So I'm going to copy this. 
      
      Um, the only thing I would say do differently here, which is kind of specific to V so open the terminal and paste that in and at the end do space.
      
      Dash dash save dash dev. Yep. That's going to say what is dev dependencies instead of regular dependencies, which just means that I'm like Veit is going to try to put any real dependencies into the JavaScript file that is like served to your visitors. Not that you actually might not even have a JavaScript file, ultimately, anything that's just used for building the site.
      
      They want you to put in dev dependencies. So that's what that 
      
      does. Dash dash save dash dev. To the end of this and that's going to install tailwind, no errors, which is great. All right. The next step after NPM install tailwind is we want to create the configuration file. So it can't be this NPX tailwind.
      
      Yeah. 
      
      So now if you run N P 
      
      a X. 
      
      Space tailwind, CSS space and net. Yeah. You know, space dash P. To make a post CSS config while at the same time, this should get us pretty close to where we need to be, to be done. Okay. Yeah. So now that we created these two files, um, so if you look at post CSS dot config, the JS that's kind of got post CSS or toe end, and Autoprefixer set up for you then this is like your talent config file.
      
      Right? So you kinda, you kind of already drowned in here, I'm sure enough to kind of know your way 
      
      around. All right. So now in our code editor, we're going to configure a few things. Uh, the first thing is it's generate. If we go to the index file, we can see it is calling main dot JS. Um, we might use this later, but for now, we're just going to delete all this stuff.
      
      We, we don't need this for our tailwind project. So I'm going to save that. We go into style that CSS we're going to be adding our own tailwind stuff in here, here. So I'm going to delete what's in there. What V2 generated automatically and, uh, go back to the tailwind configuration and you can see include tailwind in your CSS.
      
      So we need to add these at tailwind directives. So we're just going to copy these, bring them over to style that CSS and save that. Now we're going to head over to the index file and link to that, that, uh, CSS file. So link and then slash style dot CSS. There it is. Save that. Okay. And so now we're going let's test and see if tailwind is actually running.
      
      So inside this div, I'm going to add a H one with some tailwind classes on it, text five XL and. Hey, is this working? Say that head over to our web server here. Oh, I need to run it again. So let's go back here. Let's um, NPM run dev. There we go. And we refresh this. It should be. Working. Hey, is this working?
      
      Yeah, it looks like we've got a tailwind class on there, so that's great. All right. So now that we know tailwind is working, we can go to the tailwind UI components and actually try to insert that into our HTML file. So let's go back here. We're going to go into tell when you, I remember you need to have a paid license to do this, so make sure you buy a license.
      
      Uh, also this is going to require some JavaScript, which we'll add later, but if we go to code view here, this is the code we're going to be grabbing. So I'm just going to click the copy button, head back here, and I'm going to replace this div here. So let's paste that in scroll to the top again. And, uh, we will we'll deal with this later, but we should be able to save this and then.
      
      See if it's working, so let's go here and we already have, uh, the tailwind website working. Now there's a few things that don't quite look right yet that we're going to need to fix up. But overall, the basic structure is there. Right. All right. So let's head back to. Our code editor. The next step is we're going to need to install these plugins.
      
      So there's a form plugin then needs to be installed and a tailwind aspect ratio plugins. So back in the command line, we're going to kill that process there. And NPM install at tailwind CSS forms. And at tailwind CSS aspect ratio, and then we're going to use that same dash dash save dash dev. Is that all correct?
      
      Okay, so those plugins are installed. Okay. So now that's installed, we're going to grab these plugins here and we're going to open up our tailwind config dot JS, and we need to add these to the plugins section here. Go back to index. And this is of course what they're asking us to do here. We're also going to grab these colors.
      
      So under extend theme. Yeah. Right there. Or to add those, um, it looks like I need a closing bracket and. The last thing is this right here. So I'm going to copy this and we're going to put that right at the top. All right. So if this is working, we should have something that looks a lot better now. Let's uh, let's give that a look.
      
      Uh, Oh, let's first NPM run dev. Okay. And let's open up our.
      
      Server here, and this is looking a lot better now, now everything is aligned the way it should be. Everything looks perfect. And we can see if we're getting any console errors here, but I don't think we are. Yeah. Everything looks great. So wonderful. The one thing that doesn't work though, is if we bring this into mobile mode, that hamburger menu is already.
      
      Expanded. It's not, you know, it's supposed to look like if we go back here, if we go back to the landing page example, and can I scroll this like that? Yeah. So if you've got a hamburger menu like this, uh, we don't have that yet. And for that, we're going to need to add some. JavaScript to do this JavaScript work.
      
      Adam recommended we use Alpine, which is a really lightweight frameworks. I'll paint JS, and we're just going to use their CDN. So let's take a look here. And, uh, I believe this is the one here. We'll we're actually going to grab this here. All right. So back into the code editor, and if we go into our index file, we can remove this.
      
      Now, this has all been copied over actually let's, uh, tab this over. So up here in the head, we're going to add a link to the Alpine JS file on their CDN. And now we're going to write some JavaScript to essentially, uh, perform this function where. We can open and close the hamburger menu. So I'm just going to open up Adam's code here so I can copy it on the header class right up here.
      
      We're going to add X data equals curly bracket menu, open false, then down here on the button. We are going to add a click event. So at click equals menu open equals true. Then we're going to scroll way down here to this div here, and we're going to add X show equals menu open. And then on this button down here, we're going to add, add click equals menu open equals false.
      
      And I believe this should work. Let's uh, let's give it a go. Here is so let's make sure our servers running here. Uh, yep. So it's service running. So let's go over here. Open that up. And if we minimize this looks minimize the way it's supposed to be. If we click on it, it opens up, we click the ax, it closes.
      
      So the last thing we need to do is to configure this purge CSS stuff. So if I, so if I go NPM run, build.
      
      It's giving me a warning that we are not purging unused styles. And so if we look at these, if we look at this CSS file, we're getting it's, it's massive. Um, so we're going to need to, uh, fix that with purge CSS. So back in the code editor, We're going to go to tell one config and here in this purge section, and we're going to go index dot HTML, because that's the file we want to purge there.
      
      And so now if we go back and let's run the build again,
      
      And so that C that generated CSS file is a lot smaller now, 19 kilobytes versus 3,585 kilobytes. And this is all generated in this dist folder for distribution. So we have index and then in assets we have are, are generated CSS and are generated JavaScript. So that's all right there. And this is what we are going to be.
      
      Distributing to Netlify. All right. So the final step is we want to get this into get hub and then have connect, get hub. And Netlify. So every time we deploy changes to master it automatically updates our static site on Netlify. So first let's get this into GitHub. Uh, I'm going to create a repository for.
      
      Craft, which is the director we've been using any click create, and I'm going to publish this. This is just using the get hub desktop app. Snower publishing all of that to get hub. And then in Netlify we're going to click new site from get. Authorize through GitHub and we can search for that repo. There it is right there.
      
      And then in the Netlify settings, we only need two things. The first is that build command. We've been using a long, right. So. NPM run, build. We're going to have Netlify run that. And we want the directory to be dissed, which is what we saw here. This whole folder that Veit generates is what we want the static assets to be served from on Netlify.
      
      Alright, so we should be able to click deploy site and have. This work. Let's take a look here. We can actually see what it's doing by clicking through here so far. So good. All right. Now it's running the build and PM run, build.
      
      And that's doing similar to what we saw locally, right? 19 kilobytes for the CSS file. It's deploying it and the deploy is complete. So now we should be able to, if we just go back here, Here is our temporary URL. And if we click on this, there is our Netlify static site using tailwind, CSS, and tailwind UI components.
      
      And now every time I make changes locally, deploy them to get up and see if it automatically updates our. Netlify site.
      
      Save that go to get hub. These are our changes. So I'm just going to commit those push. And if we head over to Netlify, we should see a deploy triggered here. There it is. It's building. So we can take a look at this. It's going to run through those build steps again. So, yeah, every time we deployed a master Netlify, we'll recognize that there's been a change and it will rebuild the site.
      
      There we go. Site is live. And if I refresh this. My changes are nail live on the web. So I hope this has been helpful for you. Uh, if it has reached out to me on Twitter I'm am I Justin there? I run a podcast hosting company with my friend, John Buddha. And, uh, if you are in the market for podcasting, please consider us that's transistor.fm and, uh, many thanks to Adam wagon for jumping on a call with me and walking me through all of this.
      
      Uh, definitely go check out tailwind, css.com and go and buy tailwind, ui.com. If you have any other questions or comments, leave those down below.</p>
seo:
  title: 'Tutorial: build a static landing page using Tailwind UI and deploy to Netlify'
id: 987f6dfb-a65d-41e0-830f-82292a331361
