title: 'Expanding my horizons'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>I grew up in a small farming town in Alberta, but I was always interested in starting my own business. </p><p>It seemed like being an entrepreneur could lead to a life full of freedom, creativity, and purpose.</p><p>But the only businesses I knew of were the ones I could see around me: Main Street shops, realtors, lawyers, hairdressers, print shops.</p><p>When I started my own businesses, they looked a lot like the businesses I''d seen growing up: a <a href="https://justinjackson.ca/good-idea-or-bad-idea">snowboard shop</a>, WordPress freelancing, an online news site.</p><p>They weren''t profitable and required a ton of energy to run.</p><p>I tried to brainstorm new ideas, but all my ideas were "small-town ideas." They weren''t giving me the freedom, creativity, and purpose I wanted.</p><p><strong>Our experience limits our imagination.</strong></p><p>People believe that great entrepreneurs develop novel ideas because they''re exceptionally creative, brilliant, and visionary.</p><p>But the truth is, everything we come up with is a mixture of what we''ve seen, heard, and experienced.</p><p>So, if we want to develop better ideas, we need to expose ourselves to new experiences, gain new skills, make new connections, join new communities.</p><p><strong>We need to expand our horizons.</strong></p><p>In old strategy games, like Red Alert, a player starts the game in an overhead map shrouded by darkness. <strong>The only way to reveal your surroundings is to explore.</strong> As you make moves, more of the map is revealed. (This is called "the fog of war.")</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/fog-of-war.jpeg
    size: inline
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>If you want to expand your horizons, you need to explore.</p><p>For me, it was making the jump to a new career in tech (at the age of 28) that unlocked new possibilities.</p><p>The tech industry exposed me to new business models (SaaS), new communities (podcasters, bootstrappers), new skills (marketing, coding), connections, and insights.</p><p>It took years for me to accumulate everything I'd need to launch <a href="https://transistor.fm/?via=justin">Transistor</a> with Jon in 2018. But it was worth it: it delivered on my dream of having a small, calm, and profitable company.</p><p><strong>Here are ways you can expand your horizons:</strong></p><ul><li>Move to a different city</li><li>Go to a meetup in another city</li><li>Attend a conference</li><li>Speak at a conference</li><li>Interview for a job at a different company</li><li>Change the industry you work in</li><li>Become a contractor, and work for clients in a variety of industries</li><li>Follow interesting people on Twitter, and interact with them</li><li>Join an online community, like <a href="https://megamaker.meeps.app/">MegaMaker</a></li><li>Start an online community (use <a href="https://meeps.app/">Meeps</a>!)</li><li>When you travel, meet up with folks you know online</li><li><a href="https://transistor.fm/how-to-start-a-podcast/?via=justin">Start a podcast</a>, and interview people you find interesting</li><li>Listen to interviews of interesting people (I enjoyed <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OgJ0vNRjiM0">this one with Casey Neistat</a>)</li><li>Take a course (online or in-person)</li></ul><p>As you explore, learn to recognize the size &amp; shape of <a href="https://justinjackson.ca/build">good business opportunities</a>. Also, try to accumulate every advantage you can along the way: new skills, capital, market insights, distribution channels, expertise, experience, community connections, and partnerships.</p><p>This process can take a long time: I joined the tech industry in 2008 and didn't launch Transistor until 2018.</p><p>There's no guarantee of success, but you'll increase your odds by getting out of your bubble and exploring. Expand your horizons!</p><p>Cheers,<br>Justin Jackson<br>Co-founder, <a href="https://transistor.fm/?via=justin">Transistor.fm</a>
      <br><a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p>
  -
    type: newsletter
seo:
  title: 'Expanding my horizons'
  description: 'Everything we come up with is a mixture of what we''ve seen, heard, and experienced.'
  image: /assets/content/fog-of-war.jpeg
id: 6c5fcf4f-6d49-443e-bfd2-6b30d1b7dd54
