title: 'The Hierarchy of Needs for new Product Ideas'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>Anytime you see a founder (or a product) who's really killing it remember:<b>
      
      there are tons of layers (under the surface) that contributed to their success</b>.
      
      Here are the factors that lead to a SaaS gaining traction in a given market.&nbsp;</p>
  -
    type: html_embed
    embed_code: '<style>.embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; } .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }</style><div class=''embed-container''><iframe src=''https://www.youtube.com/embed//rHTr17jfTCk?rel=0'' frameborder=''0'' allowfullscreen></iframe></div>'
  -
    type: text
    text: '<h2>The foundation: evidence of demand</h2><p>The product you build should be a response to genuine demand. It''s even better when you notice demand is growing, or is currently unmet.</p><p>There should be evidence that people <i>want what you''re building</i>.</p><p>Evidence looks like:</p><ul><li>Folks currently buying something similar</li><li>Folks spending time + energy to create their own solution (Excel, etc)</li></ul><h2>The founder has unfair advantages in the category</h2><p>As a founder, you''ll need some "unfair advantages" in your market. Most success is about stacking your skills, network, passion together:</p><ul><li>If you''re incredible at SEO, do it.</li><li>If you have a personal brand, use it.</li><li>If you have rich parents, ask them for $.</li><li>If you''re good on the phone, make some calls.</li><li>If you''re healthy, use your energy to make stuff.</li></ul><p>If you''ve been building a reputation and connections in a category, you have a competitive advantage.</p><h2>The founder has ideas, a brand, or a implementation that resonates</h2><p>As a new founder, you can have all the conditions for success, but ultimately your vision for the product has to resonate with the market.&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;Your product/brand needs to have attributes that make it attractive to customers in that category (and provide enough reason to switch).</p><h2>The resources and skills to execute on your vision</h2><p>To give your product a chance at success, you are going to need enough resources to:</p><ul><li>built it</li><li>launch it</li><li>promote it&nbsp;</li></ul><p>If your financial runway is 3 months, and someone else is launching a similar product but has 3 years of cash in the bank, they have an advantage.</p><p>If you''re a solo-founder, and you''re going against another solo-founder who''s equally skilled at building product, but better at marketing, they''ll have an advantage.</p><p>This is why "stacking your advantages" in a category is important. (Especially in a crowded market).</p><h2>The final test: does your product resonate with the market?</h2><p>The success of your product will be the culmination of all these factors:</p><ul><li>How strong was the "pull" from the market?</li><li>What advantages did you have going in?</li><li>Was your hypothesis? Did you execute on it? Were you right?</li><li>Did you have the resources to build + promote it?</li></ul><p>I hope this helps you on your journey!<br></p><p>Cheers,<br>Justin Jackson<br><a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p>'
  -
    type: newsletter
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Download the full infographic:</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/hierarchy-of-needs-for-new-product-ideas-justin-jackson.png
    size: xl
    brutalized: false
seo:
  description: 'Here are the factors that make a new SaaS product succeed.'
  image: /assets/content/needs.jpeg
id: 03ae523f-5f8a-4832-a51c-08dbf46d1985
