title: 'Entrepreneurial false-positives'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>At the beginning of a new business venture, being a founder with lots of willpower, skills, energy, and drive can actually hurt you.</p><p><strong>Grit, determination, and hustle are important, but they can lead to false positives.</strong></p><p>It''s quite common for high-performance entrepreneurs to build a business that''s just "sort of working:" through pure willpower (or sometimes an existing audience) they''re able to get initial customers and revenue.</p>'
  -
    type: html_embed
    embed_code: '<blockquote class="twitter-tweet tw-align-center"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">False Positives: I&#39;m seeing more &amp; more often that someone with a personal brand + a lot of goodwill online can get to roughly a few <a href="https://twitter.com/search?q=%24k&amp;src=ctag&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">$k</a> MRR even with a product that isn&#39;t ultimately going to get escape velocity just based on people wanting to see you succeed.</p>&mdash; Tyler Tringas (@tylertringas) <a href="https://twitter.com/tylertringas/status/1402276241655439379?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 8, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>'
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>This initial traction can feel like validation; but often, it''s not there. The business is running on fumes; there''s no underlying demand fuelling it.</p><p>Grit and determination are positive characteristics. Having an audience or personal brand can also be an advantage. But there''s a real danger in building a business that is completely reliant on the founder''s relentless drive.</p>'
  -
    type: html_embed
    embed_code: '<blockquote class="twitter-tweet tw-align-center" data-conversation="none"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I see this a lot with community businesses!<br><br>A community can have good vibes and feel like it&#39;s working except the founder is at the center of every relationship, is going broke, and getting no sleep. <br><br>Can&#39;t work for long.</p>&mdash; Tatiana Figueiredo ✨ (@tatfig) <a href="https://twitter.com/tatfig/status/1520101242525130753?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 29, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>'
  -
    type: text
    text: '<h2>What to look for in a new business opportunity </h2><p>When you''re working on a new product idea, look for evidence of organic demand.</p><p>You shouldn''t have to "pull too hard" to attract customers; the market should be doing most of the work for you.</p><p>Getting a new customer shouldn’t feel like a “heavy lift;” it should feel relatively simple and effortless.</p><p>Why? If you’re working <em>really hard</em> to convince someone to become a customer, they’re not self-motivated.</p><p>You want self-motivated customers!</p><p>Pay special attention to existing momentum: are people already in motion? What does customer velocity look like currently in that market?</p><p>Years ago, I started a snowboard shop in my small suburb, thinking that the thousands of snowboarders in my area would want to "shop local"</p><p>But what I didn''t consider was their existing momentum: they were happy to drive into the big city and shop at stores with more inventory.</p><p>I discussed a lot of this with <a href="https://twitter.com/IronMikeBVE">Iron Mike Steadman</a> on his podcast: </p><blockquote><p>"When everything falls into place, and you''re not relying solely on your own effort to make something happen, but you''re able to ride the market, a business can be incredibly life-giving."</p></blockquote><p>(<a href="https://share.transistor.fm/s/4b141369">You can listen to the full episode here</a>)</p><p>Cheers,<br>Justin Jackson<br><a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p>'
  -
    type: newsletter
seo:
  description: 'Being a founder with lots of willpower, skills, energy, and drive can actually hurt you.'
id: 4ed5c1c3-e815-42b2-ba8e-659f3fb8dbf3
