title: 'Elon Musk and free speech'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>Elon Musk wants to buy Twitter and make it a private company. In his <a href="https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001418091/000110465922045641/tm2212748d1_sc13da.htm">SEC filing</a>, he said:</p><blockquote><p>I invested in Twitter as I believe in its potential to be the platform for free speech around the globe, and I believe free speech is a societal imperative for a functioning democracy.</p></blockquote><p>To understand Elon's bid, you need to understand his underlying motivation:&nbsp;<strong>he explicitly wants Twitter because he believes he can unlock more "free speech" on the platform.</strong></p><p>He isn't, for example,&nbsp;trying to make Twitter more profitable or increase revenue; his motivation is ideological, not capitalistic.<sup>1</sup></p><p>If Elon Musk bought Twitter, would it be a better place for free speech?</p><h2>Twitter, Elon, and free speech</h2><p>To start, we'll need to talk about what free speech <i>is</i>.<b>&nbsp;</b></p><p>It's tricky to define because there are no scientifically observable "universal principles of free speech."&nbsp;</p><p>In reality, free speech is a social construct encoded into law by different jurisdictions. As a result, your definition of free speech will depend largely on the country you live in:&nbsp;<a target="_blank" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freedom_of_expression_in_Canada">Canada</a>, the&nbsp;<a target="_blank" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freedom_of_speech_in_the_United_States">United States</a>, the&nbsp;<a target="_blank" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freedom_of_speech_by_country#Europe">European Union</a>,&nbsp;<a target="_blank" href="https://www.amnesty.org/en/latest/campaigns/2018/09/egypt-freedom-of-expression/">Egypt</a>,&nbsp;<a target="_blank" href="https://www.erudit.org/fr/revues/mlj/2012-v57-n4-mlj0351/1013032ar/">Israel</a>,&nbsp;<a target="_blank" href="https://hrw.org/news/2022/01/13/singapore-tightening-screws-speech#">Singapore</a>, etc.</p><p>As it stands currently, Twitter is a private-sector company in the United States, and already follows free speech regulations there. For example, according to US law, Twitter has the right to moderate content and remove users:<br></p><blockquote><p>The First Amendment of the US Constitution limits the government—not private entities—from restricting free expression. This is why companies like Facebook and Twitter can moderate content—and also why they could suspend then-President Trump’s accounts during his last weeks in office. (<a href="https://daily.jstor.org/is-there-a-first-amendment-right-to-tweet/">Ref</a>)</p></blockquote><p>Recently, some high-profile Republicans have stated that Twitter <i>shouldn't </i>have the right to ban certain users. But, it was a Republican president (Nixon) who gave American corporations this power:<br></p><blockquote><p>Only after President Richard Nixon appointed four pro-business conservative justices did the Supreme Court reject this view of the First Amendment, and insist that private corporations have no constitutional obligation to grant access to their property to speakers they dislike, no matter how powerful those corporations might be. (<a href="https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2021/01/first-amendment-regulation/617827/">Ref</a>)</p></blockquote><p>So when Elon says he wants "[to make Twitter] adhere to free speech principles," he's not talking about the legal principle of free speech.</p><p>Which begs the question: which definition of free speech is Elon alluding to?&nbsp;</p><p>It seems what he really means is that he wants to <b>make Twitter adhere to his personal beliefs about free speech</b>. When asked about what it meant to be a "free speech absolutist" in his <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdZZpaB2kDM">TED interview</a>, Elon responded:</p><blockquote><p>Well, I think, obviously Twitter or any forum is bound by the laws of the country it operates in. So, obviously there are some limitations on free speech in the US. And of course, Twitter would have to abide by those rules.</p></blockquote><p>Already, Elon is conceding that this isn't about <i>free speech.</i>&nbsp;Again, free speech isn't an observable universal law; it only exists as a legal concept. And, in the USA at least, Twitter is acting within those boundaries.</p><h2>Does Elon Musk understand how content moderation works?</h2><p>Prof. Kate Klonick’s paper,&nbsp;<a rel="noreferrer noopener" href="https://harvardlawreview.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/1598-1670_Online.pdf" target="_blank">The New Governors</a>, is an excellent summary of the history of free speech on online platforms.&nbsp;</p><p>She summarizes the current state this way:</p><blockquote><p>Platforms have created a
      voluntary system of self-regulation because they are economically motivated to create a hospitable environment for their users in order to incentivize engagement. This self-regulation involves both reflecting
      the norms of their users around speech as well as keeping up as much
      speech as possible. Online platforms also self-regulate for reasons of
      social and corporate responsibility, which in turn reflect free speech
      norms. These motivations reflect both the Good Samaritan incentives
      and collateral censorship concerns.</p></blockquote><p>Klonick's paper proves this isn't a new issue: tech companies have been wrestling with free speech issues since 1991, <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cubby,_Inc._v._CompuServe_Inc.">with Cubby, Inc. v. CompuServe Inc</a>.</p><p>Her paper also reveals how complicated it is to apply free speech principles on a global platform:</p><blockquote><p>Wong, Hoffman, and Willner all described being acutely aware of their
      predisposition to American democratic culture, which put a large emphasis on free speech and American cultural norms. Simultaneously,
      there were complicated implications in trying to implement those
      American democratic cultural norms within a global company.</p></blockquote><p>Again, free speech laws differ from country to country. So which conception of free speech should a global platform, like Twitter, impose on its users? Unfortunately for Musk, there's no easy answer.</p><p>Furthermore, Elon's suggested changes to Twitter aren't practical In his TED interview, he said:</p><blockquote><p>One of the things I believe Twitter should do is open source the algorithm. Anytime they make any changes to people’s tweets — if they’re emphasized or de-emphasized — that should be made apparent so that anyone can see that action has been taken.</p></blockquote><p><a href="https://www.techdirt.com/2022/04/15/elon-musk-demonstrates-how-little-he-understands-about-content-moderation/?utm_source=pocket_mylist">Mike Masnick</a> responded to this quote by reminding folks that Twitter had this policy early in its history:</p><blockquote><p>This is the same sort of thing that early Twitter and Facebook and other platform people said in the early days. And then they found out it doesn’t work.</p></blockquote><p>Klonick's paper also describes the early history of Twitter this way:</p><blockquote><p>At Twitter, the company established an early policy not to police user
      content, except in certain circumstances, and rigorously defended that
      right. Adherence to this ethos led to Twitter’s early reputation among
      social media platforms as “the free speech wing of the free speech party.” It also meant that unlike YouTube and Facebook, which actively took on content moderation of their users’ content, Twitter developed no internal content-moderation process for taking down and reviewing content.&nbsp;</p></blockquote><p><i>(You can read more about the evolution of Twitter's policies on Motherboard: <a href="https://www.vice.com/en/article/z43xw3/the-history-of-twitters-rules">The History of Twitter's Rules</a>).</i></p><p>So it's not like Twitter hasn't been here before: they've tried policies similar to what Musk is suggesting and found that, in practice, they don't work. Masnick <a href="https://www.techdirt.com/2022/04/15/elon-musk-demonstrates-how-little-he-understands-about-content-moderation/?utm_source=pocket_mylist">points out</a> that the biggest benefactors of an open-source Twitter algorithm would be spammers:</p><blockquote><p>There’s a reason why Google’s search algorithm has become more and more opaque over the years. Not because it’s trying to suppress people, but because the people who were most interested in understanding how it all worked were search engine spammers. Open sourcing the Twitter algorithm would do the same thing.</p></blockquote><p><a target="_blank" href="https://www.theverge.com/2022/4/15/23025120/elon-musk-twitter-free-speech-government-censorship">The Verge</a>&nbsp;also points out that Musk owning Twitter outright would likely make the company more susceptible to government regulation:</p><blockquote><p>Far from being better equipped to protect free speech, a Musk-owned Twitter might be in a weaker position than a publicly owned one. Musk’s involvement in numerous other industries — including telecommunications with Starlink, space travel with SpaceX, and cars with Tesla — would give regulators and politicians added leverage to pressure Twitter with.</p></blockquote><p>If Musk were genuinely concerned about how free speech laws are currently applied, he could petition the government to change the rules. For example, in the EU, free speech legislation is implemented differently:</p><blockquote><p>[The EU's proposed legislation], the DSA, also allows users to challenge takedown decisions and encourages transparency about content moderation decisions. European governments would not only tell companies what they must remove, but also what they must not remove. (<a href="https://daily.jstor.org/is-there-a-first-amendment-right-to-tweet/">Ref</a>)</p></blockquote><p>But Musk doesn't genuinely care about free speech; he and his fans have certain beliefs about freedom of expression. They believe moderation should work a certain way, and they'd like to see it imposed on Twitter.&nbsp;</p><h2>In summary:</h2><p>Elon has the right to buy Twitter (in the same way other billionaires can buy media properties).&nbsp;</p><p>If he does buy it, he will be allowed to enforce his concept of "free speech" on Twitter (in the same way that Twitter's current leaders have that freedom).</p><p>But that will not be a win for "free speech" (in its actual meaning): it will be a win for folks who see the world the way Elon does. That's an entirely different thing.</p><p>Cheers,<br>Justin Jackson<br><a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p>
  -
    type: newsletter
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p><b>Footnotes:</b></p><p><sup>1&nbsp;</sup>As a board member, Elon Musk have a fiduciary duty to increase the value of Twitter for its shareholders (which is likely why he declined his seat).</p>'
seo:
  description: 'Elon wants to buy Twitter to unlock free speech on the platform. But will it work?'
  image: /assets/elon-musk-free-speech.png
id: 6d70ff55-335f-4a18-bb7b-794a883eed95
