title: 'AI-driven content is a nightmare'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>I''m deeply concerned about the increasing role of AI-driven content recommendation engines in our lives.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/ai-drive-content-is-a-nightmare.jpg
    size: md
    brutalized: true
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <h2>AI-driven content is unhealthy for consumers</h2><p>When I use an app like TikTok, it “entertains” me for hours. But I wouldn’t describe that experience as healthy.&nbsp;</p><p>Yes, if you make junk food&nbsp;<b>designed&nbsp;to be addictive</b>&nbsp;people will consume large amounts of it.
      
      And yes, McDonald's, Coca-Cola, etc will make more money and make shareholders happy.
      
      But that's not a net positive for society.</p><p>What's even more concerning is <b>who will control this AI-driven future</b>. As <a href="https://oa.transistor.fm/episodes/michael-mignano-on-the-end-of-social-media-and-the-rise-of-recommendation-media">Michael Mignano said</a>:</p><blockquote><p>"The platforms that will be most successful here are the ones with A) the most data, and B) the most computing power. If recommendation media is all about making AI-informed recommendations, basically <b>the platform with the most computing power wins</b>."</p></blockquote><p>So we're forecasting a future where we're all addicted to AI-driven content, where companies like Meta, Google, and Amazon own the algorithm? No thanks.</p><p>Giving people a never-ending stream of content designed to keep them on a centralized platform longer where the algorithm is controlled by some megacorp (and its shareholders) isn’t my idea of a great future.
      It’s fucking dystopian.&nbsp;</p><h2>AI-driven content is a bad deal for creators</h2><p>I think creators have always had a "bad deal" from social media platforms: we provide the content for free/low cost, we upload our address books, we cross-promote on other platforms, etc. But that deal will go from bad to worse in an AI-driven world.</p><p>In the old world, a creator would put a ton of time, energy, and money into making a YouTube video. If they were lucky, they might get $100 for the effort, but at least they were rewarded with "followers."&nbsp;</p><p>In the new AI-driven world, you make a viral video and get no followers. In an AI-driven world, people follow the algorithm, not the creator.</p><p>There's also an existential threat for creators because artificial intelligence can do more than recommend content: it can also&nbsp;<i>create</i>&nbsp;content.</p><p>AI-driven media platforms will exploit cheap/free content from human creators, and use it to train their algorithms, as long as it suits them.
      
      But you better believe: as soon as they can generate the content with AI (and bypass creators entirely) they will.</p><h2>Who is AI-driven content for?</h2><p>Is it for consumers? Are we better off with algorithms designed to addict us and keep us on our phones even longer?</p><p>Is it for creators whose importance and "usefulness" will gradually degrade until they are replaced by AI-generated content?</p><p>Or does it primarily benefit the massive corporations that will accrue more revenue and power through these AI engines?</p><p>If the spoils of innovation make most people's lives worse by addicting them to vapid content, should we invest in it? (I'm talking to consumers, developers, founders, and venture capitalists here)</p><p>If anything, we need less content delivered by an algorithm. Let's embrace technology that gives us more calm. Let's embrace human-scale forms of recommendation.</p><p>Concerned,<br>Justin Jackson<br><a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p>
  -
    type: newsletter
seo:
  title: 'AI-driven content is a nightmare'
  description: 'Giving people a never-ending stream of content designed to keep them on a centralized platform longer where the algorithm is controlled by some megacorp (and its shareholders) isn’t my idea of a great future. It’s fucking dystopian.'
  image: /assets/ai-drive-content-is-a-nightmare.jpg
id: f33926d2-69ca-41d6-9f95-d65ea9170355
