title: 'Why are you doing this?'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>It''s worth being clear about <em>why </em>we''re doing what we''re doing. </p><p>When Jon and I started <a href="https://transistor.fm/?via=justin">Transistor</a>, our primary motivation was to have a better life. We wanted to build something we could be proud of. We were tired of working for other people. We wanted to make more money. We wanted more freedom.</p><p>I think we need to be careful about mixing up our company''s purpose and our personal motivations for starting a company.</p><p>At <a href="https://transistor.fm/?via=justin">Transistor</a>, our company''s purpose is to build the best podcast hosting software and to give our users excellent customer service.</p><p>But for us as founders, our main motivation is for us to build better lives for ourselves and our employees.</p><p>I think for most indie entrepreneurs, their personal objectives for starting a company look like this:</p><ul><li>A sense of purpose: doing work that we can be proud of, that makes some sort of difference in people''s lives.</li><li>A sense of enjoyment: doing work we like, with people that we like.</li><li>Freedom: having the flexibility and space to optimize our lives in terms of our schedule, where we live, and how we work.</li><li>Money: having the resources to do the things we want to, and live the lifestyle we want to live.</li></ul><p>If you''ve started a company, it''s worth evaluating your progress along these lines. Your company might be killing it, but it could also be making you miserable. The flipside is more often true: your business isn''t doing very well, which means it''s not giving you the benefits you wanted from it.</p><p>I think it''s essential to keep your entrepreneurial "raison d''etre" in mind from the beginning. For a moment, allow yourself to be selfish. Ask yourself: <strong>what do I want to get out of this experience?</strong></p><p>When you start a company, you''re making a bet. You''re betting that your personal investment of time, resources, money, and passion is going to give you a return. Ultimately, you want to get something out of this.</p><p>Naturally, a new startup isn''t going to give you all the purpose, enjoyment, freedom, and money you want from the beginning. It''s going to take some time for it give you a return on your investment. </p><p>But I wouldn''t wait too long for your business to start paying you "better life" dividends. Too many entrepreneurs get stuck in a life-long grind, where the business is making them (and their families) miserable.</p><p>This is also why we shouldn''t blindly commit to "running our business forever." We want the good things that a business can give us; if those benefits disappear, there''s no reason to keep going. It''s to switch to something else, sell your company, or retire.</p><p>If you <em>do </em>want to run your company for a long time, it''s even more important that you ask yourself: "Am I enjoying this? Is this company giving me the life I want?" When left unchecked, a business can quickly become a job we don''t enjoy.</p><p>Make business decisions that optimize for the life you want. If you''ve hit a revenue ceiling because of a lack of customer demand, it might be time to switch businesses. If your category requires massive teams, but you like working on smaller teams, it might be time to find a different category. If your investors are making demands you don''t like, it might be time to buy them out.</p><p>As a founder, you have the ability set the direction of your company based on what you value. Don''t lose site of <em>why </em>you got into this in the first place.</p><p>Cheers,<br>Justin Jackson<br><a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p>'
  -
    type: newsletter
seo:
  title: 'What''s your personal reason for starting a business?'
  description: 'It''s worth being clear about why we''re starting a company.'
id: 5f962468-93db-47d6-a432-e61698ced1a7
