title: 'Is ChatGPT the next big startup platform?'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Lately, I''ve been getting more DMs from founders trying to launch new products built on top of ChatGPT.</p><p>They ask me for my advice, and honestly, I don''t know what to tell them.</p><p><strong>I''m not convinced that ChatGPT will be the platform on which a wave of new indie startups will be built.</strong></p><p><em>I''m not saying that tools like ChatGPT can''t be helpful assistants.</em></p><p>But it seems increasingly unlikely that indie software products with "X powered by AI" as their main value prop will succeed long-term.</p><h2>Why ChatGPT is not a traditional startup platform</h2><p>Historically, bootstrapped startups have been built on top of open protocols (such as email, the web, and RSS), open platforms (like WordPress), and open-source tools (including Ruby on Rails, Laravel, Vue, and Tailwind CSS).</p><p>These indie founders used open protocols and open-source tools to level the playing field and give their ideas a chance to succeed. MailChimp and ConvertKit, for example, harnessed the email protocol without paying a single cent to Gmail or Microsoft for API access or postage fees.</p><p>And&nbsp;</p><p>Even more important, nearly every SaaS application leverages web browsers as their "platform" for launching their software product. There are no licensing fees for having your web app load in Chrome, Safari, Edge, or Firefox.</p><p>Early bootstrapping successes, such as 37signals, triumphed because of the open web. Built with Ruby on Rails (open source), accessed through the web browser, and promoted through their blog, Basecamp managed to carve out a thriving business despite competition from giants like Microsoft Project</p><p>For decades, software startups built on the open web were more agile than their (larger) competition. They could move faster, leverage open source, and deploy new versions seamlessly to the web.</p><p><a href="https://www.oreilly.com/pub/a/web2/archive/what-is-web-20.html?page=5">Web 2.0</a> app development democratized the software industry, giving smaller, bootstrapped companies a unique advantage. Indie founders could differentiate through simpler products, distinctive branding, and creative distribution channels. Usually, the only thing "cost of goods sold" was hosting. Most of the tech you built on top of was free, open-source, or open protocols.</p><p>However, the world of Web 2.0 startups wasn''t without its challenges. Some founders built upon large, centralized platforms, often to their detriment. Twitter developers faced setbacks when their API access was blocked, while Shopify app creators saw their features integrated into the Shopify product.&nbsp;<b>This became known as platform risk:</b>&nbsp;there''s always a risk that the platform will change its policies, algorithms, or features, which can negatively impact the startups built on it.</p><h3>The risks of building your startup on ChatGPT (or other AI platforms)</h3><p>Unlike the open protocols and open source bootstrappers have relied on in the past, OpenAI''s ChatGPT is not open. Their source code is closed, and you <a href="https://openai.com/pricing">must pay for API access</a>. OpenAI also just announced <a href="https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt-plugins">their plugin store</a>, a central marketplace they control.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/chatgpt-plugins-marketplace-app-store.png
    size: xl
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>This exposes startups to all the same kind of platform risk they''ve experienced before, on Twitter, Facebook, etc.</p><p>OpenAI can, at any time:</p><ul><li>Incorporate your product''s features into their main ChatGPT product</li><li>Increase the cost for API access&nbsp;</li><li>Decide who is featured in their ChatGPT plugin store</li></ul><p>Already, founders are noticing the costs of GPT4 vs GPT3:</p>'
  -
    type: html_embed
    embed_code: '<blockquote class="twitter-tweet tw-align-center" data-conversation="none"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">GPT-4&#39;s prompt + completion costs are SOOO pricy at the moment. I can&#39;t wait for this to go down.<br><br>GPT-4 clearly outperforms ChatGPT, but I wouldn&#39;t say that the difference would be 30x the completion cost. 💰<br><br>However, the prompt length is a game changer. <a href="https://t.co/MvF4gGzITb">pic.twitter.com/MvF4gGzITb</a></p>&mdash; Lewis Menelaws (@LewisMenelaws) <a href="https://twitter.com/LewisMenelaws/status/1640365795371802624?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">March 27, 2023</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>'
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p> fact, OpenAI has a particularly potent version of platform risk. They''re more like Google Search than the Shopify Store: consumers already use (and are paying for) the ChatGPT product directly.</p><p>In the same way that Google Search spread like wildfire, regular people are discovering ChatGPT and adopting it. Ben Thompson explains this dynamic in his piece entitled "<a href="https://stratechery.com/2023/the-accidental-consumer-tech-company-chatgpt-meta-and-product-market-fit-aggregation-and-apis/">The Accidental Consumer Tech Company</a>:"</p><blockquote><p>The most obvious business model for the research-focused company was the OpenAI API, access to which was sold on a usage basis.</p><p>Then came ChatGPT. Within a matter of weeks ChatGPT had over 100 million users, marking the fastest growth of a consumer app ever, and by all accounts&nbsp;<a href="https://aibusiness.com/nlp/chatgpt-passes-1b-page-views">it’s still growing rapidly</a>; OpenAI, whether they intended to or not, suddenly found itself a consumer tech company.</p></blockquote><p>Many markets have a “main product” that consume most of the value in a category (<a href="https://justinjackson.ca/the-main-thing">I describe this further here</a>).&nbsp;</p><p>My assumption is that in the "ChatGPT value chain," most consumers will get the majority of their value from interacting with ChatGPT itself.&nbsp;</p><p>There will be opportunities for interfacing with ChatGPT from other software, but see most of that benefit accruing to existing products.&nbsp;</p><p>New startups building smaller products on of ChatGPT will have to compete both with ChatGPT and bigger companies;</p><ul><li>Do I really need an additional interface for ChatGPT, if I can just go direct to ChatGPT?</li><li>Bigger, established products already have marketshare, a relationship with customers, and existing use-cases where they can sprinkle AI as a value-add.</li></ul><p>It''s surprising how fast mature companies like Microsoft have been able to incorporate AI/ChatGPT as features in their existing apps.&nbsp;</p><p>This greatly diminishes the need for intermediary products, often built by indie bootstrappers. For example, why would a customer choose your simple AI-driven transcription product, if it''s already included in other apps they use (Decript, Microsoft Office, Google Docs).</p><p>We''re already seeing this dynamic play out:<br></p>'
  -
    type: html_embed
    embed_code: '<blockquote class="twitter-tweet tw-align-center"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">With <a href="https://twitter.com/OpenAI?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@OpenAI</a> moving up the stack into integrations and plugins, they basically killed half of LLM infra startups that were focusing on on that part of the stack. <br><br>Startups need to rethink where they can build without being disrupted by the foundation model providers.</p>&mdash; Aaron Yang (@IAmAaronYang) <a href="https://twitter.com/IAmAaronYang/status/1639237798313054208?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">March 24, 2023</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>'
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p><br></p><p>I''m writing this mostly as a warning. I know a lot of indie founders are hopeful that AI is the next big platform that will produce the next wave of bootstrapped startups (similar to&nbsp;<a href="https://twitter.com/Eduullv/status/1638988638657695989" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">the iOS store</a>, Shopify store, etc).</p><p>I believe there <i>will</i> be opportunities for established bootstrapped startups, who already have a strong customer base, to incorporate AI into their products.</p><p>And everyone can benefit from AI-assisted coding, problem-solving, and outline writing.</p><p>But it seems, with AI, I think most of the upside will go to big companies (especially to OpenAI), not new AI-driven startups.</p><p>For more on this, check out&nbsp;<a href="https://catchup.fm/episodes/arvid-tyler-are-talking-about-ai" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Arvid and Tyler''s episode</a>.</p><p>Cheers,<br>Justin Jackson</p><p>PS: I continue to be concerned about AI and that the pace of its development will outpace our ability to consider the ethics and ramifications on society.</p><p><strong>If you''re excited about AI, I urge you to check out some of the warnings being issued from long-time AI researchers:</strong></p><ul><li>On Twitter, I recommend following&nbsp;<a href="https://twitter.com/emilymbender" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Professor Emily Bender</a>​</li><li>Dr. Stuart Russell (UC Berkeley):&nbsp;<a href="https://share.transistor.fm/s/deca2e46" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Are we living in an AGI world?</a>​</li><li>Gary Marcus:&nbsp;<a href="https://garymarcus.substack.com/p/gpt-4s-successes-and-gpt-4s-failures" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">GPT-4’s successes, and GPT-4’s failures</a>​</li><li>Dr. Stuart Russell:&nbsp;<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zGU2dxlGmoA" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">How to get AI right</a>​</li><li>Gary Marcus:&nbsp;<a href="https://nautil.us/deep-learning-is-hitting-a-wall-238440/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Deep Learning Is Hitting a Wall</a>​</li><li>​<a href="https://plinkhq.com/i/733163012/e/1000603166437" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Interview with Gary Marcus and Dr. Stuart Russell</a>​</li><li>Dan Shipper:&nbsp;<a href="https://every.to/chain-of-thought/awe-anxiety-and-ai" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Awe, Anxiety, and AI</a></li></ul>'
  -
    type: newsletter
seo:
  title: 'Is ChatGPT the next big bootstrapper opportunity?'
  description: 'The biggest risk for ChatGPT-enabled apps is that existing products (Microsoft Office, Descript, Google Sheets, Zapier) are just implementing these features directly into their apps'
  image: /assets/chatgpt-startups-openai-1679757700.jpg
id: e77652b9-60f9-43a8-8eb9-d7f4d5159af4
