title: 'Public anxiety'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<h3>How to structure your talk</h3><h4>The rule of three</h4><p>Splitting your topic into three parts is a great way to structure a talk. It''s actually the format of Steve Jobs'' <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D1R-jKKp3NA">famous commencement speech</a>:</p><blockquote>Today I want to tell you three stories from my life. That’s it. No big deal. Just three stories.</blockquote><p>Jobs used his three stories to illustrate his main point: "The only way to do great work is to love what you do. If you haven''t found it yet, keep looking. Don''t settle."</p><p>Again, it doesn''t have to be three stories. It could be:</p><ul><li>Three tactics to try<br></li><li>Three ways to approach X<br></li><li>Three problems I solved<br></li><li>Three methods to test for X</li><li>How I use X to&nbsp;fix these three things</li></ul><h4>Focus on takeaways</h4><p>My favorite thing to do at a conference is to observe which slides get the most people to reach in their pockets, pull out their phones, and take a picture.</p><p>Attendees are looking for takeaways! Give them a practical action they can take home with them:</p><ul><li>"Run this test..."</li><li>"Do this action..."</li><li>"Try this hack..."</li><li>"Here''s a good tip..."</li><li>"Use this tool..."</li><li>"Reduce X by..."</li><li>"Focus on this..."</li><li>"Start with this template..."</li></ul><p>Here''s a great example from Patio11''s talk at MicroConf:</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/patio11-pricing-packages.jpg
    size: md
    brutalized: true
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Patio11 is offering the audience a starting point for pricing their software products. There''s immense value to takeaways&nbsp;like this.</p><p>-----</p><p>Tame your anxiety</p><p>Everyone gets nervous giving a talk; introverts and extroverts alike! However, some of us struggle more with social anxiety than others.</p><p>You can overcome this. My friend Jason Charnes has General Anxiety Disorder, but that hasn''t stopped him. He''s managed to speak at over 10 events! Here''s what''s worked for him:</p><p>Therapy: "The real help for me came when I also started to see an amazing counselor. I could tell him all the crazy things that go through my head, and leave his office feeling like the weight of the world has been lifted off my shoulders."</p><p>Breathing: Jason learned some breathing exercises that help him qualm panic attacks. "Anytime I start to go into a panic attack, I just lay back and breathe."</p><p>Start small: Jason''s first talk was 30-45 seconds at a Rails Conf. "During the lightning talks, they were having technical problems," he explains, "so they asked if anyone had a lightning talk they wanted to give that didn’t involve a computer." Jason was scared, but he went up and gave a short, honest talk: "Hi, I''m Jason, and I struggle with anxiety." It was short, but afterward, he realized that he''d done it.</p><h2>How I got into public speaking</h2><p>When I was younger, I was the shyest kid in my whole class.</p><p>I went to a French immersion school (that''s a thing in Canada), and every year we''d have "Concours d’art oratoire." It was a public-speaking competition for students across the province.</p><p>"Concours" was mandatory, and I despised it. I''d have anxiety for weeks beforehand. When my turn came, I''d grit my teeth and just get through it as fast as possible (while staring at my shoes).</p><p>Fast forward to adulthood.</p><p>When I started my career, I realized that learning to speak publicly would be a critical skill. Whether it was presenting to my dev team, giving a product demo, or speaking at a local meetup, I needed to know how to give a talk.</p><p>I started small by doing team presentations. Then, I moved on to giving product demos.</p><p>Eventually, I put on a small workshop for our customers.</p><p>In 2011, I attended a Future of Web Apps conference in Miami and wondered, "could I speak on stage at a tech conference like this?"</p><p>I kept practicing. I spoke at local meetups and events.</p><p>And then, in 2015 I submitted an attendee talk for MicroConf in Las Vegas. Other attendees got to vote on which talks they wanted to see. My topic was picked, and I gave my 12-minute talk on stage at a tech conference!</p><p>The organizers liked it so much, they asked me to be the keynote speaker at MicroConf in Barcelona that summer.</p><p>Every year since then I’ve spoken at tech conferences like MicroConf, AppSumo’s SumoCon, and Laracon.</p>'
  -
    type: sidebar
    text: '**Sidenote:** Jason will be presenting a session in my [upcoming class](https://justinjackson.podia.com/speak) on how to overcome anxiety when you speak in front of people. 👍'
id: 60b92c33-64d2-4c1f-88de-0caf5a61bfec
