title: 'Will they jump in your boat?'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<blockquote><p>"Will someone pay for this?"</p></blockquote><p>For bootstrappers, this is the question we pose when we''re about to build something new. And it''s a good place to start! But it doesn''t go deep enough.</p><p><b>We''re not looking for "someone," or even "some people."</b> In most cases, we''re looking for hundreds or thousands of customers. Getting five customers immediately after launch is a good sign, but if you can''t grow beyond that you won''t be able to build a sustainable business.</p><p><b>Likewise, we want people to be willing to pay now.</b>&nbsp;We''re not looking for someone to pay "eventually." For a SaaS to work, it needs a group of people who are highly motivated to start a subscription <i>now</i>&nbsp;and then keep paying every month. Netflix doesn''t want you to become a customer next year, they want you as a customer now.</p><p><b>And finally, we want to attract customers without expending too much effort.</b>&nbsp;If can''t take too much time, money, and energy, to convince someone to pay.</p><h2>Fishing for business</h2><p>In&nbsp;<a href="https://justinjackson.ca/niche">The Myth of the Niche Market</a>, I used fishing as a metaphor for choosing the right market.</p><p>I quoted professional angler <a href="http://www.bishfish.co.nz/articles/salt/flogic.htm">Tony Bishop</a> who said:<br></p><blockquote><p>80% of fish are caught by 20% of fishermen. How do they do this? <i>They fish where the fish are most often.</i></p></blockquote><p>I''d like to emphasize that second part: "fish where the fish are most often."</p><p>Tony''s advice can be broken down into these parts:</p><ol><li>Decide which fish you want to catch</li><li>Figure out where those fish hang out ("For inshore species look for reefs, foul ground, weed beds, with good tidal or current flows")</li><li>Give the fish something they want</li></ol><p>He spends most of <a href="http://www.bishfish.co.nz/articles/salt/flogic.htm">this essay</a> describing steps for determining where to find groups of fish:</p><blockquote><p>Find the optimum environment, for the target species, and you will find the largest numbers of fish and the biggest fish.</p></blockquote><h3>It''s about showing up in the right spot</h3><p>There''s a <a href="https://youtu.be/mC3eXTcvfH0">viral video</a> that shows a boat motoring down a river. Suddenly, hundreds of fish start jumping into their boat.</p>'
  -
    type: html_embed
    embed_code: '<style>.embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; -webkit-filter: grayscale(100%); filter: grayscale(100%);  } .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }</style><div class=''embed-container mb-3''><iframe src=''https://www.youtube.com/embed//mC3eXTcvfH0?rel=0'' frameborder=''0'' allowfullscreen></iframe></div>'
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>To me, this is what a good product-market fit feels like.&nbsp;<b>Without you having to try too hard, customers should be showing up to buy your product.</b></p><p>Initially, you want to see some unprompted momentum.</p><p>People are surprised when they hear my friend Adam Wathan''s <a href="https://justinjackson.ca/adam-wathan-launch">launch story</a>:&nbsp;</p><blockquote><p>"I had 14 sales on the night before I officially launched."</p></blockquote><p>Adam showed up in such a good fishing spot, that 14 fish jumped in his boat before he''d even cast his rod.</p><p>So how did he do that?&nbsp;</p><h2>A framework for fishing for customers</h2><h3>First, figure out which fish you want to catch</h3><p>I''ve <a href="https://devmarketing.xyz/saas-target-market/">written about this</a> in the past, but generally, you want customers who are:</p><ul><li>Plentiful in number</li><li>Willing to pay now</li><li>Highly motivated</li></ul><p>It also helps if they''re <a href="https://justinjackson.ca/want">a group you resonate with</a>.</p><p>For his <a href="https://adamwathan.me/refactoring-to-collections/?utm_source=justinjackson.ca&amp;utm_medium=link&amp;utm_campaign=indienewsletter">first product</a>, Adam Wathan targeted PHP developers. He knew there were millions of them, and he''d seen how motivated they were to learn new skills.</p><p>He was also a passionate member of that group.</p><blockquote><p>"I never set out to build an audience. I''ve just always enjoyed participating in the community and sharing what I know."</p></blockquote><h3>Next, hang out where there are lots of fish</h3><p>This step is important because it will determine (relatively quickly) whether your market is viable.</p><p>Adam seemed surprised when I asked him if it was hard for him to connect with PHP programmers.</p><blockquote><p>For me, Twitter was where all the programming discussions were happening. I started sharing quick practical tips, and I''d get a hundred retweets.</p></blockquote><p>Many of the problems entrepreneurs face are related to <a href="https://justinjackson.ca/niche">targeting a niche</a> where there aren''t a lot of fish.</p><p>Paraphrasing Jason Cohen:</p><blockquote><p>"Targeting a small niche might sound appealing, but it sure is easy to sell vanilla ice cream at a crowded beach even when you’re right next to another ice cream stand."</p></blockquote>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/selling-ice-cream-on-a-hot-day.jpg
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: '<h3>Finally, give them what they want</h3><p>Choosing a sizeable market that''s easy to reach is a big part of the battle.</p><p>But you''re still going to need to <a href="https://justinjackson.ca/build">build something they want</a>.</p><p>Again, sometimes I think entrepreneurs overthink this. They think they have to be overly original.</p><p>I like Jason Cohen''s example: "Just think of selling ice cream on a crowded beach on a hot day."</p>'
  -
    type: sidebar
    text: |
      What you're looking for is resonance. _Ice cream_ sells well on a _hot day_, at the _beach_.
      
      [Jordan Gal](https://twitter.com/JordanGal/status/1131414132605849600): **product, timing, and market - you need all three!**
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Adam once said to me:</p><blockquote><p>"I''m lucky to be teaching an in-demand topic to a huge market of people who have money to spend on training."</p></blockquote><p>If what you''re&nbsp;</p><p>If you pull up to a fishing spot teeming with fish, and you''ve got the right bait, they should practically be jumping in your boat.</p>'
seo:
  title: 'Will they jump in your boat?'
  description: 'To me, this is what a good product-market fit feels like. Without you having to try too hard, customers should be showing up to buy your product.'
  image: /assets/ernine-and-bert-here-fishy-fishy-boat-fishing.jpg
id: 11e53a81-5d09-4592-a0ed-4ca3fc000705
