title: 'Want to speak at a tech conference?'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Many of the developers I know want to get into public speaking.</p><p>They''ve got a message they want to share, or a topic they want to teach.</p><p>They also know that speaking at conferences is a&nbsp;good way to level-up professionally.</p><blockquote>"I recommend speaking at conferences – it&nbsp;helps you meet people and is also a clear ''Hey, I know what I''m doing and I can write good code'' signal to the world." – Stephanie Hurlburt</blockquote><p>But, for many, the idea of public speaking is terrifying.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/cory-house-speaking.png
    size: md
    brutalized: true
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>How can you overcome your nerves, and get on stage for the first time?</p><h2>How I got into public speaking</h2><p>When I was younger, I was the shyest kid in my whole class.</p><p>I went to a French immersion school (that''s a thing in Canada), and every year we''d have "Concours <g class="gr_ gr_367 gr-alert gr_spell gr_inline_cards gr_run_anim ContextualSpelling" id="367" data-gr-id="367">d’art</g> <g class="gr_ gr_368 gr-alert gr_spell gr_inline_cards gr_disable_anim_appear ContextualSpelling" id="368" data-gr-id="368">oratoire</g>." It was a public-speaking competition for students across the province.&nbsp;</p><p>"Concours" was mandatory, and I despised it. I''d have anxiety for weeks beforehand. When my turn came, I''d grit my teeth and just get through it as fast as possible (while staring at my shoes).</p><p>Fast forward to adulthood.</p><p>When I started my career, I realized that learning to speak publicly would be a critical skill. Whether it was presenting to my dev team, giving a product demo, or speaking at a local meetup, I needed to know how to give a talk.</p><p>I started small by doing team presentations. Then, I moved on to giving product demos.</p><p>Eventually, I put on a small workshop for our customers.</p><p>In 2011, I attended a Future of Web Apps conference in Miami and wondered, "could I speak on stage at a tech conference like this?"</p><p>I kept practicing. I spoke at local meetups and events.</p><p>And then, in 2015 I submitted an attendee talk for MicroConf in Las Vegas. My topic was picked, and I gave my 12-minute talk on stage at a tech conference!</p><p>The organizers liked it so much, they asked me to be the keynote speaker at MicroConf in Barcelona that summer.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/justin-jackson-microconf-talk-2015.jpg
    size: md
    brutalized: true
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Every year since then I’ve spoken at tech conferences like MicroConf, AppSumo’s SumoCon, and Laracon.</p>'
  -
    type: html_embed
    embed_code: '<style>.embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; } .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }</style><div class=''embed-container''><iframe src=''https://www.youtube.com/embed//xOapCnFFrFk?rel=0'' frameborder=''0'' allowfullscreen></iframe></div>'
  -
    type: text
    text: '<h2>How to speak at a tech conference</h2><p>Public speaking, just like anything, is a skill you develop over time. Here are some best practices.</p><h3>Consider "why" we get talks in the first place</h3><p>Talks serve different purposes, depending on your role.</p><p><b>For conference organizers</b>&nbsp;"the talks" is what motivates people to buy tickets. They want topics&nbsp;and speakers that are engaging. Ultimately, they want attendees to get value from the event (and come back next year).</p><p><b>Conference attendees</b>&nbsp;are looking for talks that will teach them something new, entertain them, and motivate them to try&nbsp;something when they get home.</p><p><b>Conference speakers </b>have a variety of motivations. The important piece is for you to be honest about what you''re hoping to achieve, personally, by giving a talk.</p><h3>Think of your audience</h3><p>Knowing who you''re speaking to is the most important step of any talk. Your topic, content,&nbsp;and delivery all depend on who''s in the audience.</p><p>So start by taking out a piece of paper and writing out:</p><blockquote>Who am I speaking to?</blockquote><p>When give a talk at Laracon, I''m speaking to PHP developers, many of whom are in their late 30s to early 40s, are married, and have kids. Most are in the mid to late phase of their career. These are all&nbsp;details that should inform&nbsp;my content.</p><h3>How to pick a topic for your talk</h3><p>Once you know <b>who </b>you''re speaking to, you can think about <b>what </b>you could talk about.</p><p>This doesn''t have to be scary! Adam Wathan was watching David Hemphill speak, and made this comment:</p><blockquote>I really like the format of David''s talk:&nbsp;<em>“Here are some interesting problems I’ve had to solve and how I solved them.”</em> Everyone learns something and it’s super practical.<br></blockquote><p>After watching hundreds of tech talks over the years, I''ve noticed that these types of talks resonate the most strongly:</p><ul><li>"Here''s a situation I was in, and how I made it better."<br></li><li>"Here''s something I accomplished and here''s how I did it..."<br></li><li>"Here''s my experience so far, and what I would have done differently..."<br></li></ul><h3>How to structure your talk</h3><h4>The rule of three</h4><p>Splitting your topic into three parts is a great way to structure a talk. It''s actually the format of Steve Jobs'' <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D1R-jKKp3NA">famous commencement speech</a>:</p><blockquote>Today I want to tell you three stories from my life. That’s it. No big deal. Just three stories.</blockquote><p>Jobs used his three stories to illustrate his main point: "The only way to do great work is to love what you do. If you haven''t found it yet, keep looking. Don''t settle."</p><p>Again, it doesn''t have to be three stories. It could be:</p><ul><li>Three tactics to try<br></li><li>Three ways to approach X<br></li><li>Three problems I solved<br></li><li>Three methods to test for X</li><li>How I use X to&nbsp;fix these three things</li></ul><h4>Focus on takeaways</h4><p>My favorite thing to do at a conference is to observe which slides get the most people to reach in their pockets, pull out their phones, and take a picture.</p><p>Attendees are looking for takeaways! Give them a practical action they can take home with them:</p><ul><li>"Run this test..."</li><li>"Do this action..."</li><li>"Try this hack..."</li><li>"Here''s a good tip..."</li><li>"Use this tool..."</li><li>"Reduce X by..."</li><li>"Focus on this..."</li></ul><p><br></p><p>can help you become a better public speaker.</p>'
id: ecfdff29-d1d1-4eb4-a364-ba304ed0b7f9
