title: 'How to give a great tech talk'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<h2>Think of your audience<br></h2><p>Knowing who you''re speaking to is the most important step of any talk. Your topic, content,&nbsp;and delivery all depend on who''s in the audience.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/jeff-duke.png
    size: md
    brutalized: true
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>So start by taking out a piece of paper and writing out:</p><blockquote><p>Who is this event for?</p></blockquote><p>Remember: the talk isn''t <b>for</b>&nbsp;you. You''re trying to help attendees make progress in their lives.</p><p>Early on, you''ll want to identify different areas where the audience is struggling. Make a list!</p><h3>How to pick a topic for your talk</h3><p>Once you have a list of potential topics, you''ll want to narrow it down.</p><p>You''re looking for overlap between two areas:</p><ul><li>What does the audience want to learn?<br></li><li>What I am best equipped to teach?<br></li></ul><p>This doesn''t have to be scary! Adam Wathan was watching David Hemphill speak, and made this comment:</p><blockquote><p>I really like the format of David''s talk:&nbsp;<em>“Here are some interesting problems I’ve had to solve and how I solved them.”</em> Everyone learns something and it’s super practical.<br></p></blockquote><p>After watching hundreds of tech talks over the years, I''ve noticed that these types of talks resonate the most strongly:</p><ul><li>"Here''s a situation I was in, and how I made it better."<br></li><li>"Here''s something I accomplished and here''s how I did it..."<br></li><li>"Here''s my experience so far, and what I would have done differently..."</li></ul><h3>How to structure your talk</h3><h4>The rule of three</h4><p>Splitting your topic into three parts is a great way to structure a talk. It''s actually the format of Steve Jobs'' <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D1R-jKKp3NA">famous commencement speech</a>:</p><blockquote><p>Today I want to tell you three stories from my life. That’s it. No big deal. Just three stories.</p></blockquote><p>Jobs used his three stories to illustrate his main point: "The only way to do great work is to love what you do. If you haven''t found it yet, keep looking. Don''t settle."</p><p>Again, it doesn''t have to be three stories. It could be:</p><ul><li>Three tactics to try<br></li><li>Three ways to approach X<br></li><li>Three problems I solved<br></li><li>Three methods to test for X</li><li>How I use X to&nbsp;fix these three things</li></ul><h4>Focus on takeaways</h4><p>My favorite thing to do at a conference is to observe which slides get the most people to reach in their pockets, pull out their phones, and take a picture.</p><p>Attendees are looking for takeaways! Give them a practical action they can take home with them:</p><ul><li>"Run this test..."</li><li>"Do this action..."</li><li>"Try this hack..."</li><li>"Here''s a good tip..."</li><li>"Use this tool..."</li><li>"Reduce X by..."</li><li>"Focus on this..."</li><li>"Start with this template..."</li></ul><p>Here''s a great example from Patio11''s talk at MicroConf:</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/patio11-pricing-packages.jpg
    size: md
    brutalized: true
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Patio11 is offering the audience a starting point for pricing their software products. There''s immense value to takeaways&nbsp;like this.</p><h3>How I got into public speaking</h3><p>When I was younger, I was the shyest kid in my whole class.</p><p>I went to a French immersion school (that''s a thing in Canada), and every year we''d have "Concours d’art oratoire." It was a public-speaking competition for students across the province.</p><p>"Concours" was mandatory, and I despised it. I''d have anxiety for weeks beforehand. When my turn came, I''d grit my teeth and just get through it as fast as possible (while staring at my shoes).</p><p>Fast forward to adulthood.</p><p>When I started my career, I realized that learning to speak publicly would be a critical skill. Whether it was presenting to my dev team, giving a product demo, or speaking at a local meetup, I needed to know how to give a talk.</p><p>I started small by doing team presentations. Then, I moved on to giving product demos.</p><p>Eventually, I put on a small workshop for our customers.</p><p>In 2011, I attended a Future of Web Apps conference in Miami and wondered, "could I speak on stage at a tech conference like this?"</p><p>I kept practicing. I spoke at local meetups and events.</p><p>And then, in 2015 I submitted an attendee talk for MicroConf in Las Vegas. Other attendees got to vote on which talks they wanted to see. My topic was picked, and I gave my 12-minute talk on stage at a tech conference!</p><p>The organizers liked it so much, they asked me to be the keynote speaker at MicroConf in Barcelona that summer.</p><p>Every year since then I’ve spoken at tech conferences like MicroConf, AppSumo’s SumoCon, and Laracon.</p><p><br></p>'
id: 60b92c33-64d2-4c1f-88de-0caf5a61bfec
