title: 'The financial risk of being a solopreneur'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Wow. I was so apprehensive about last week''s article (<a href="https://justinjackson.ca/costs">read it here</a>).</p><p>But revealing my struggle with startup costs clearly hit a nerve.</p><p>I received more comments, tweets,&nbsp;and replies for this than almost anything else I''ve written this year. Even DHH weighed in:</p>'
  -
    type: image
    size: md
    brutalized: true
    image: /assets/content/dhh-big-tweet.png
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>A big part of my article focused on how I''d previously been given this advice:<br></p>'
  -
    type: sidebar
    text: '"It is far easier to create something that will increase revenue by $200 a month than it is to squeeze $200 out of expenses."'
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>I was wrestling with this in December 2017.&nbsp;My gut was telling me to reduce my monthly business expenses.</p><p>My ego, however, was saying: "Don''t waste time trying to reduce piddly expenses! You''re a hotshot entrepreneur. Your time is valuable! Just go out and do what entrepreneurs do: earn more revenue."</p><p>Instead of cutting back expenses in 2018, I tried to increase revenue instead.</p><p>But, for the first time since 2012, my revenue won''t grow this year.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/indie-income-by-year.png
    size: md
    brutalized: true
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Previously, my slow and steady growth was a point of pride for me. It felt like I''d done things "the right way."</p><p>But in 2018, three factors&nbsp;ended up negatively affecting my revenue:</p><ol><li>I was&nbsp;battling personal mental health issues.</li><li>A major re-launch, that had previously netted $44,000,&nbsp;didn''t go as planned.</li><li>I started a new&nbsp;company,&nbsp;<a href="https://transistor.fm/?via=justin" rel="box-sizing: border-box; background-color: transparent; color: rgb(17, 85, 204); text-decoration: underline; transition: all 150ms ease-out 0s;">Transistor.fm</a>, that took away&nbsp;time and attention away from my main business.</li></ol><p>One of my readers (Murray, from Red Deer, AB) pointed out something I''d ignored:</p><blockquote><p>"It''s risky being a solopreneur. You''re uniquely susceptible to the drag of expenses. If you experience health issues... the company may need to rely on its momentum for a little while. Expenses, are a drag on that momentum when the one and only cylinder falters. Minimizing expenses is the best insurance for keeping a solopreneur''s business alive when life gets in the way.​"<br></p></blockquote><p>If you''re making $500,000 a year, canceling&nbsp;$500 in subscriptions might not make a big difference on your bottom line.</p><p>But if you''re a solopreneur making $100,000 a year, those $500 subscriptions represents 6% of your annual income. What solopreneur doesn''t want, or need, an extra $6,000?</p><p>Over the years, I''d fallen into a trap that Mike Michalowicz &nbsp;describes in his book, Profit First:</p><blockquote><p>"Increase sales and the profit will take care of itself, right?&nbsp;<em>Wrong.</em>&nbsp;As your income climbs, expenses quickly follow. Money problems occur when sales slow down. Rather than reducing our costs, we scramble to cover ridiculously high expenses."​<br></p></blockquote><p>When I started my little side-hustle in 2012, I was incredibly frugal. My only real expense was a $10 Bluehost bill!</p><p>But as my revenue increased, it was easier to say "yes" to more things: travel, apps, &nbsp;Before I knew it, expenses had ballooned to an average of $4,400 per month!</p><p><br></p>'
id: 04fdd694-8c3b-4b34-8304-0ffbe0fc79ef
