title: 'How do I build something people want?'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>Tons of folks (including me) give this generic advice to first-time founders:</p><blockquote><p>"Make something people want!"</p></blockquote><p>So when I read Katelyn Bourgoin's <a href="https://twitter.com/KateBour/status/1123033705163915264">tweet</a>, it made me pause:</p><blockquote><p>Telling founders simply to “build something people want” is at best unhelpful... and at worst condescending.
      
      Founders are trying. Hard.
      
      Of course they WANT to build great products.
      
      Let’s stop spouting platitudes and start giving more actionable guidance, please.</p></blockquote><p>This is my first attempt to answer the question, "how do I build something people want?" If you have ideas on making this better, <a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin">let me know</a>!</p><h2>First, the market you target matters</h2><p>You don't just want to build something that a few people want; you want to build something that a lot of people want.&nbsp;</p><p>Even a small bootstrapped company needs hundreds of customers. (Actually, most will need thousands.)</p><p>How do you get there? Let's work backwards:</p><ul><li>Let's say you want 1,000 customers.</li><li>If your trial to paid conversion rate is 40%, you'll need 2,500 trials.</li><li>If your visitor to trial conversion rate is 1%, you'll need 250,000 visitors.</li></ul><p>(This example assumes you require a credit card up-front, which dramatically reduces your trial to conversion rate. If you don't ask for credit card up front, your visitor to trial conversion rate should 5% or higher)</p><h3>Case study: Taylor Otwell (size matters)</h3><p>Taylor started his SaaS career by launching an invoicing app. It didn't really get any traction.</p><p>Next, he built a tool for an audience he knew well: the PHP developers who were using his framework, <a href="https://laravel.com/">Laravel</a>:</p><blockquote><p>"I didn't have any idea what to expect before I launched it, but <a href="https://forge.laravel.com/">Forge</a> was an immediate success. Within a month it had about 1,000 customers."</p></blockquote><p>I asked him:</p>
  -
    type: sidebar
    text: |
      **Me**: Why do you think Forge was immediately successful?
      
      **Taylor**: By that time, the audience for Laravel had grown steadily. I announced Forge at Laracon (our conference) in the USA and Europe. There were probably a thousand people who attended, and Forge was something they could all use. So, in retrospect, getting 1,000 customers was fairly achievable at the time given our audience.
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>It''s estimated that there are over 5 million PHP developers worldwide. Before Taylor came along, they''d been ignored; the rest of the dev world&nbsp;was focused on "cool" programming languages.<br></p><p>"Before Laravel, there were a lot of programmers who were burnt out on PHP," Taylor observes, "they hated their job." There was a large, pent-up demand in the PHP market for something better. So when Taylor started releasing tools that helped these developers in a personal way, they responded.</p><p>Taylor''s big advantage is that he was targeting a&nbsp;<b>big&nbsp;</b>group of&nbsp;<b>motivated</b>&nbsp;people. To get 1,000 new customers every year, he only needs to attract .02% of the 5 million developers in his market.</p><p>It''s easier being a fisherman if the sea is filled with more fish.</p><h3>The momentum in your market matters</h3><p>Jon and I are building <a href="https://transistor.fm/?via=justin">Transistor.fm</a> right now. One thing that''s been interesting for me is how different it feels to be in a big market with growing demand.</p><p>In previous projects, I had to use a lot of sophisticated marketing techniques to gain traction.&nbsp;</p><p>But right now, there''s lots of demand for podcast hosting, and it feels like we can''t keep up. It''s like we''ve been dropped in a rushing river, and our job is to paddle as hard as we can. It''s a totally different feeling.&nbsp;</p><p>For many founders, this is a hard truth to accept:&nbsp;<b>the momentum in your market matters</b>.</p><blockquote><p>"The market you’re in will determine most of your growth." – <a href="https://twitter.com/shl">Sahil Lavingia</a></p></blockquote><p>How do figure out if you have a good market? Here are some questions you can ask yourself:<br></p><ul><li>Who are the people that might be interested in what I''ve built?</li><li>How many of them are there?</li><li>How much momentum is there for this type of product right now?</li></ul><p>This is why Ruben Gamez decided to start <a href="https://www.docsketch.com/">Docsketch</a>. He''s competing directly against DocuSign.&nbsp;</p><p>Why did he jump into such a competitive market? <b>The market is HUGE</b>. Last year, DocuSign''s revenues were $701&nbsp;million. They have more than&nbsp;300,000 paying customers, and over 200 million people use the product. It''s a market with a lot of movement!</p>'
  -
    type: sidebar
    text: 'Ruben notes that "while targeting a big market can make a lot of things easier, there are trade offs. For example, some things that are harder, notably positioning and standing out."'
  -
    type: text
    text: '<h3>Characteristics of a good market</h3><p>These are the three characteristics of a good market:</p><ol><li><b>Highly motivated.</b> You''re looking for people who spend money to make progress in their lives.</li><li><b>Sufficiently large.</b>&nbsp;Are there enough people in your nice with the desire for your product?</li><li><b>Purchasing power.</b>&nbsp;Are there enough people in your market with the funds to pay you?</li></ol><h2>Second, figure out what they want</h2><p>Going back to Taylor Otwell, people are astounded that he''s been able to come up with so many good ideas.</p><p>Here are the products Taylor''s released since 2013:</p><ul><li><a href="https://forge.laravel.com/" target="_blank">Laravel Forge</a><br></li><li><a href="https://envoyer.io/" target="_blank">Envoyer.io&nbsp;</a><br></li><li><a href="https://spark.laravel.com/" target="_blank">Spark</a>, a “SaaS starter kit.”</li><li><a href="https://nova.laravel.com/" target="_blank">Laravel Nova</a></li></ul><p>Each product is doing very well. What''s Taylor''s secret? How does he know what people want, before he starts building?</p><h3>Be in the community</h3><p>From the beginning, Laravel has been focused on community. Taylor told me:</p><blockquote><p>"Everybody wants to feel like they''re a part of something. If you can build community, and make people feel welcome, then they''ll naturally gravitate towards it."</p></blockquote><p>When you''re in the community, you''re way more attuned to what people want. You see their struggles first-hand; you hear them talk about the desires they have for their life.</p><h3>Solve your own problems, and see how the community responds</h3><p>So you''re hanging out in the community, what''s next?</p><p>For Taylor, he started solving his own problems:</p><ul><li>"I was spending way too much time configuring servers. So I built Forge."</li><li>"I couldn''t have apps be down while we''re deploying. So I fixed that with Envoyer."</li><li>"I never want to have to write all the boilerplate code that I wrote for Forge and Envoyer ever again. So I automated all that with Spark."</li></ul><p>With each of these projects, he was fine if he was the only user. "If no one else wants this, I''m still going to use it," he''d say before each project.</p><p>This reminds me of Derek Sivers'' story. He&nbsp;</p>'
seo:
  title: 'How do you build something people want?'
  description: 'As a founder, you want to build something people want. But how do we go beyond platitudes and actually do that? Here''s some actionable advice.'
  image: /assets/laracon-line-how-to-build-something-people-want.jpg
id: ceeb58c5-555e-488c-b488-09d918cdae7d
