title: 'Let''s talk about startup costs'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>In startup land, there is a ton of "common wisdom" that gets repeated.&nbsp;But what if the common wisdom isn''t right for you, and your context?</p><h2>Let''s talk about startup costs</h2><p>Last year, I tweeted that I was looking to reduce my monthly expenses. I got some advice back from some people I really respect. It sounded something like this:</p><ul><li>"Don''t waste your time trying to reduce expenses! It''s far easier to increase revenue than reducing expenses."</li><li>"Just charge more!"</li><li>"Send more emails. Focus on sales, not on reducing expenses."</li></ul><p>I made a spreadsheet modeling their advice, and on paper, their advice seemed prudent:</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/2017-revenu-expense-modeling.png
    size: md
    brutalized: true
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>But for me, at the time, it was the wrong advice.</p><ul><li>I was in the middle of a bad depression.</li><li>I wasn''t able to focus on my business for more than 1-2 hours a day.</li><li>With less focus, my revenue dropped.</li><li>With less revenue, I started losing money each month.</li></ul><p>If you''re comparing "increasing revenue by 10% vs reducing expenses by 10%," it seems silly to reduce expenses.</p><p>But what if revenue decreases 37%? Then your burn rate matters quite a bit.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/2017-revenu-expense-modeling-02.png
    size: md
    brutalized: true
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>I''m not blaming anyone for giving me specific advice. My choices and circumstance that have brought me here. Ultimately, I''m responsible for my business.</p><p>However, I think it''s worth digging a bit deeper into this cliché. Should founders make an effort to reduce their monthly expenses?</p><h2>The effort conundrum</h2><p>When I was younger, I worked for a company doing millions of dollars in sales every year.</p><p>One day, I watched my boss spend an entire day on reducing our web hosting bill from $115 / month to $39 / month.</p><p>Let''s say his salary his $123,325 per year. Is it worth it for him to spend his valuable time to save a meager $76 per month?</p><p>Well, if my boss had the opportunity that day to increase revenue even by 0.1%, it feels like a bad trade.</p><p>But what about a solopreneur earning $123,325 per year? Is it worth it for him to save $76 / month on website hosting?</p><p><b>It all depends!</b></p><p>If the founder thinks his revenue will stay flat, it might make sense.</p><ul><li>A $123,325 salary is roughly <a href="https://www.convertunits.com/salary/123325" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">$60 / hour</a>.</li><li>So spending 8 hours will "cost" your company $480.</li><li>But over the next 12 months, you''ll save $912.</li><li>Over the next 2 years, you''ll save $1,824. In 4 years, you''ll have saved $3,648.</li></ul><p>At this scale, even small expenses can have a big compound effect on a business.</p><p><br></p>'
id: d87bf910-efdc-4954-a6ce-160f698a27f8
