title: 'Keep podcasting open'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>When Apple added podcasts to iTunes in&nbsp;<a href="https://daringfireball.net/2005/07/podcast_pocket">2005</a>&nbsp;they kept RSS as the backbone.</p><p>Not only did they innovate on top of the existing RSS standard (by adding new tags for thumbnails, podcast categories, etc) but they enabled an entire podcast ecosystem to develop.</p><p>It''s likely that this type of move would have never happened in 2022, as most mega-tech-corps today would have&nbsp;<a href="https://mignano.medium.com/the-standards-innovation-paradox-e14cab521391">locked that shit down</a>.&nbsp;"An open protocol that lets anybody generate, ingest, and distribute an audio feed? How are we going to control that?"</p><h2>Why big money loves proprietary platforms</h2><p>Increasingly, venture capitalists and big corporations determine what we see on the web. And&nbsp;<b>when they invest in&nbsp;<i>platforms,</i>&nbsp;they want them to be proprietary systems</b>&nbsp;like YouTube, Facebook, TikTok, and Twitter. They want to own the whole stack, monetize it, and (ultimately) be the primary beneficiaries of any upside.</p><p>Proprietary platforms almost often use this playbook:</p><ol><li>Entice content creators to their platform with the promise of "more distribution."</li><li>Initially, provide substantial organic reach for content.</li><li>Later, reduce the amount of organic reach a piece of content gets.</li><li>Monetize this (mostly free) content through ads and "boosts" (where creators have to pay to reach their own audience).</li></ol><p>Open protocols, like RSS, SMTP, and HTTP, are antithetical to this formula. Their open, distributed nature means that big corporations can''t control them. Sure, you can build your own email service (AOL, Yahoo Mail, Hotmail, Gmail, Hey) but you can''t own the whole thing. Today, we don''t pay "postage fees" to Microsoft or Google when we send an email because the standards (SMTP, POP) are open and shared. This tension keeps big tech in check.&nbsp;</p><p>Open standards are also good for individual creators, small businesses, and indie developers. For example, using something like SMPT, a programmer can build their own email app, a small businesses can efficiently contact their customers, and a writer&nbsp;can make a living sending an email newsletter to their audience.</p><p>With email, a business owns the relationship with their customers. There''s no ongoing cost to "boost" one''s message. If I''ve signed up to get notified when you have a sale, you can email me, and your message will be delivered.</p><h3>The Facebook example</h3><p>Now let''s compare an open protocol like email (SMTP) to Facebook Pages. Facebook initially enticed businesses to set up a Page with the promise of "reaching more customers." Businesses responded by creating Facebook Pages, and promoting it to their customers. However, as soon as Facebook had a critical mass on the their platofrm, they locked down organic reach for posts. Now, to reach your entire audience on Facebook, you''d have to pay.&nbsp;</p><p>While Facebook''s initial promise was alluring in the short-term, it ended up being worse for small businesses in the long-term. You sign a deal with devil thinking you''re getting more distribution, but six months later you''re in a kind of hell.</p><p>This same playbook ("promise distribution, then lock it down") has been repeated numerous times in the tech industry: blogging on Medium, the developer API on Twitter, the feed on Instagram, etc. These platforms are built on the backs of individual creators, only to have the rug pulled out once they reach scale.</p><h2>Why RSS is good for podcasters</h2><p>This brings me back to RSS and podcasting.</p><p>With RSS as its backbone, the podcast ecosystem has developed into a truly vibrant place where podcasters have an incredible amount of choice:&nbsp;</p><ul><li>they''re free to record and encode their MP3s the way they''d like,&nbsp;</li><li>they can choose to publish their show on a variety of independent&nbsp;<a href="https://transistor.fm/?via=justin">hosting platforms</a>&nbsp;(or roll their own RSS feeds, and host them themselves),</li><li>they can exercise their freedom of speech (especially if they host and distribute their RSS feed themselves),</li><li>they can decide which podcast directories and listening apps they want distribution on,</li><li>they can&nbsp;<a href="https://transistor.fm/make-money-podcasting/">monetize</a>&nbsp;their podcast however they''d like.</li></ul><p>This freedom is all made possible because RSS is an open standard; no one entity controls it.&nbsp;</p><p>Currently, there''s no central distribution channel in podcasting: Apple Podcasts, Spotify, Google Podcasts, Amazon, Podcast Index, Listen Notes, and others hold each other in tandem. This is ultimately good for creators, because if one entity controlled podcast distribution, it''d be possible to do what Facebook did with Pages: charge podcasters to "boost" our content to our listeners (or worse, inject their ads into our content without our permission).</p><p>(Some might argue that replicating these podcast indexes over and over is a weakness, but I think it makes the entire ecosystem more resilient. Similar to DNS, we''re not relient on one centralized index. And again, this openness ultimately benefits podcasters and listeners with more choice)</p><h2>Protecting the open podcast ecosystem&nbsp;</h2><p>Podcasting''s open standard, RSS, is under attack.</p><p>In his&nbsp;<a href="https://mignano.medium.com/the-standards-innovation-paradox-e14cab521391">essay</a>, Michael Mignano, the founder of Anchor (now acquired by Spotify) argues that podcasting needs a proprietary (closed) system. In a subsequent interview on Podland, he describes what he calls "The Standards/Innovation Paradox:"</p><blockquote><p>"The paradox is: when a standard [like RSS] breaks through and gains massive adoption it then becomes very, very hard to change. And the market that it effectively powers stagnates in terms of innovation, because nobody can come to an agreement about what the changes to the standards should be at scale."</p></blockquote><p>First, I''m confused what he means by "innovation" here. There''s been a tremendous amount of innovation built on solid, reliable, open internet standards: HTTP, TCP/IP, SMTP, RSS, etc.</p><p>In fact, it''s largely self-funded, bootstraped, independent companies that build on these open protocols:</p><ul><li><a href="https://convertkit.com/?lmref=erdpyA">ConvertKit</a>&nbsp;is a self-funded email newsletter startup (built on SMTP)<br></li><li><a href="https://hey.com/">Hey</a>&nbsp;is a new email app from 37signals, and competes with much larger products from Google (Gmail).</li><li><a href="https://transistor.fm/?via=justin">Transistor</a>&nbsp;(the company I co-founded) hosts podcasts, generates podcasts and submits them to Apple, Spotify, and more.</li></ul><p>Each of these companies is doing innovative work, creating new features for customers, and employing people around the world.</p><p>When Mignano refers to "innovation" he seems to be saying: "big tech companies can''t create the proprietary features they''d like relying completely on these open standards."</p><p>This is the kind of "innovation" only benefits a corporation and its stakeholders, takes freedom and optionality away from creators, destroys the livelihood of independent app developers, and often imposes a distribution tax on creators,&nbsp;<b>then I''d rather not have it.&nbsp;</b></p><h2>What kind of innovation do we really need in podcasting?</h2><p>The beautiful thing about RSS is that it is extendable. Apple demonstrated the extensibility of RSS when it added its&nbsp;<code>&lt;itunes&gt;</code>&nbsp;tags, which enabled podcast cover art, chapters, and more.&nbsp;</p><p>Today, Google, Apple, and Spotify have all added their tags to the RSS namespace. Plus, the Podcasting 2.0 group is moving fast, adding numerous new&nbsp;<code>&lt;podcast&gt;</code>&nbsp;tags, including the ability to add transcripts.</p><p>Technically, it''s possible to add new features for listeners, like the ability to comment on a podcast episode and have it show up on all platforms.</p><p>Innovation on top of the open RSS system will continue. But to make it go faster, podcast hosting providers and app developers will need to cooperate on supporting new&nbsp;<code>&lt;podcast&gt;</code>&nbsp;tags being set by the&nbsp;<a href="https://github.com/Podcastindex-org/podcast-namespace">Podcasting 2.0 project</a>.</p><p>We need the podcast equivalent of the&nbsp;<a href="https://www.webstandards.org/">Web Standards Project</a>, which was formed in 1998. At the time, the W3C was setting open standards for web development, but browsers were ignoring them (most significantly, Microsoft''s Internet Explorer and Netscape). The purpose of the Web Standards Project was to convince different companies to support the open standard being set by the W3C.&nbsp;<a href="https://thehistoryoftheweb.com/a-short-history-of-wasp-and-why-web-standards-matter/">They succeeded</a>.</p><p>Many say we need to solve the "discoverability" problem for listeners. Is the idea that current podcast listeners are having trouble discovering new shows to listen to?</p>'
id: 3a76e2ef-311e-4dfb-9237-4987d14a20db
