title: 'Change my mind'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>In my teenaged years and my 20s, I had some cult-like beliefs that lead to some truly awful attitudes and behaviors.&nbsp;</p><p><b>What changed my mind?</b> Incremental correction by professors, coworkers, and peers. Hanging out with a new group of people who challenged my ideology. Learning to look for evidence, and evaluate it properly.</p><p>All of this took time; it didn''t happen overnight. There was no lightning-bolt event that changed my beliefs instantly. Mindset changes are incremental.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/change-my-mind.jpeg
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>I used to question everything.</p><p>My religious beliefs, in particular, gave me the false-confidence that I could speak authoritatively on all issues. This was reinforced at a young age (in my teens and 20s) by mentors and leaders. "You''ve got a gift for speaking the truth," they''d tell me; reinforcing my dogma. Within this culture, we were supposed to value humility, but in practice we generated egotism; an "exaggerated opinion of our own importance."</p><p>Within this belief system, we were skeptical of outsiders. We were especially wary of institutions (government, academia) and scientists, because we saw them as a threat to our culture. This made us more insular, because we felt like we could only trust what came from within our group.</p><p>Whenever an outsider challenged me on my beliefs it felt especially threatening, because my beliefs undergirded numerous aspects of my life: purpose, politics, philosophy, family, friends, livelihood. Questioning me on a single issue was like pulling on thread that connected to the very fabric of my life; tugging at that thread threatened to unravel the whole thing.</p><p><br></p><p>I eventually left that culture and belief system. It didn''t happen overnight;&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;It took time, but through gradual correction, I realized how wrong my beliefs were.</p>'
seo:
  title: 'Mindset changes are incremental'
  description: 'In my 20s, I had some cult-like beliefs that lead to some truly awful attitudes and behaviors. What changed my mind?'
  image: /assets/change-my-mind.jpeg
id: 8e00cb2d-9665-4d2a-9d90-598213e5006e
