title: 'The ethics of AI-driven content'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Over on <a href="https://every.to/divinations/the-infinite-article">Every</a>, Nathan Baschez explores this question: <b>what if we had a personal AI that could write the perfect thing just for us?</b></p><blockquote><p>Imagine waking up in the morning and having your coffee while reading the perfect article. It was written just for you the moment you picked it up. Unlike regular articles, this one knows everything. It can tell you about all the world events you care about, the companies you’re keeping an eye on, and the thinkers whose ideas you admire. It knows your obsessions and helps you explore them more deeply. It’s even got your weird sense of humor nailed!</p></blockquote><p>It was refreshing to see him explore some ethical considerations of AI-driven content at the end of the article. I''d like to add a few more ethical questions to explore as we evaluate the possibilities of artificial intelligence.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/philosopher-evaluating-the-ethical-concerns-of-artificial-intelligence.jpeg
    size: md
    brutalized: false
    clickable_image_url: 'https://playgroundai.com/post/cl8m9z9mu3402801s63yqcadzu'
  -
    type: text
    text: '<h2>Could AI-driven content be a good thing?</h2><p>Whether or not AI-driven content will be good for human health and society will depend on how AIs interpret the phrase "<i>the <b>perfect</b> article for <b>you</b></i>."</p><p>What will these artificial intelligence systems optimize for?</p><p>For example, <b>if the AI is optimizing for engagement</b>, the "perfect article for me" might appeal to my most undignified desires. It might produce "easy reading" content that doesn''t rock the boat or upset me. To ensure I keep reading, the AI might generate paragraphs that continually reinforce my existing beliefs.</p><p>The question of "<b>what will AI optimize for?"</b>&nbsp;will largely be answered by large corporations who have the computing power to run these systems. Companies like Google, Facebook, and Amazon are investing massive amounts of money in training these machine learning systems.</p><p>These are capitalist organizations using AI tools for capitalist means.</p><p>One of the biggest ethical quandaries for capitalists is that <b>people have strong desires for things that aren''t good for them. </b>McDonald''s makes junk food, and we eat it. Philip Morris made machines that produce <a href="https://www.pmi.com/investor-relations/overview/how-cigarettes-are-made">20,000 cigarettes a minute</a>, and we smoked them. Twitter made a newsfeed designed to ensnare us, and we doomscrolled. This is the principle point of Bernard Mandeville''s notorious&nbsp;<i><a href="https://iep.utm.edu/mandevil/">The Fable of the Bees</a></i>: our private vices are good for the economy!</p><p>For AI, this quandary is even more acute because you can design a self-learning system optimized to fulfill every unhealthy human desire and habit. TikTok addiction is only the beginning.</p><p>A thoughtful AI, trained to challenge the human mind in healthy ways, could potentially improve human society. For example, it could determine that "Justin needs to read the stoics" and start sprinkling that into my daily digest. Or, it might teach me how to be a supportive parent once my kids are in college. A thoughtful AI could help me better understand the people in my community and create more shared understanding.</p><p>But I fear these AIs will optimize for whatever gets us most addicted so that the companies with the compute power required (Facebook, Google, Amazon) can sell more ads.</p><p><br></p>'
seo:
  title: 'The ethics of AI-driven content'
  description: 'What if we had a personal AI that could write the perfect thing just for us? A thoughtful AI, trained to challenge the human mind in healthy ways, could potentially improve human society. But it could also optimized to fulfill every unhealthy human desire and habit.'
  image: /assets/content/philosopher-evaluating-the-ethical-concerns-of-artificial-intelligence.jpeg
id: 3bde0bb7-77d9-452c-9411-9ad8a80d33fc
