title: 'Silverwood Theme Park Review, Travel Tips, and Photos'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>People who know me know that I love theme parks and waterparks. My two teenage boys and I just made the 6-hour drive to Northern Idaho to visit&nbsp;<a href="https://www.silverwoodthemepark.com/">Silverwood</a>&nbsp;- the largest theme park in the American Northwest.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/silverwood-ferris-wheel-theme-park.jpg
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>This was our second time at Silverwood (the last time in 2019), and I kept thinking of tips and advice I''d want to give myself on our next trip. So, I''m writing it here in case someone else finds it useful.</p><h2>What''s so special about Silverwood Theme Park?</h2><p>Silverwood is unlike any other theme park or water park I''ve visited. First, it''s fairly remote. The nearest city is Coeur d’Alene (population: 55,000), a 30-minute drive away. Spokane, Washington, is a 1-hour drive.</p><p>However, if you''re in Seattle and like road trips, Silverwood is a 5-hour drive. I live in Vernon, BC, and it took us about 6 hours to drive south and reach the theme park.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/the-drive-to-silverwood-1692205362.png
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>But there''s something special about Silverwood that draws over 800,000 people a year to the park. It has a quality and attention to detail that makes it unique. In 1986, the founder, Gary Norton,&nbsp;<a href="https://www.silverwoodexpress.com/2018/04/04/a-step-back-into-yesteryear/">famously outbid</a>&nbsp;the Walt Disney Company on a 1915 steam train. Two years later, he started Silverwood with the train and built the theme park around it. Despite outshining Disney at the train auction, Norton exemplifies many of Disney''s principles: the park is clean, family-friendly, and has its own character.</p><h2>How early can you get to Silverwood?</h2><p>Although the park officially opens at 11 am, the parking and front gates open at 10 am. If you want to&nbsp;</p><h2>Tips for Boulder Beach Waterpark</h2><p>In the summer, it gets hot in Northern Idaho (it was 97°F / 36°C while we were there). The waterpark attracts big crowds; it gets busy!</p><ul><li>If you arrive at the waterpark early, you''ll see a line up on the grass, close to the fence. That''s the right line to be in for when the gates open.</li><li>The most popular slide is <a href="https://www.silverwoodthemepark.com/rides/ricochet-rapids.php">Ricochet Rapids</a>&nbsp;(the big green tube you see from the highway, where you ride a giant raft). The lineup gets very long, and it''s not uncommon to wait 45 minutes. Your best bet is to arrive at the park early (10 am), park, and get in line for the waterpark. Once the gate opens, run to Ricochet Rapids. When we did this, our wait was about 5 minutes.<br></li><li>If you get to Ricochet Rapids too late (and the lineup is already long), go to <a href="https://www.silverwoodthemepark.com/rides/avalanche-mtn.php">Avalanche Mountain</a>. It''s another family raft slide, just not enclosed in a tube. It has a dual-loading station, so the lineup goes much faster.</li></ul><p><br></p>'
id: 30f103eb-8887-4287-bbcd-c89f8ca4762a
