title: 'Elon Musk and free speech'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p>Elon Musk wants to buy Twitter, and make it a private company. In his <a href="https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001418091/000110465922045641/tm2212748d1_sc13da.htm">SEC filing</a>, he said:</p><blockquote><p>I invested in Twitter as I believe in its potential to be the platform for free speech around the globe, and I believe free speech is a societal imperative for a functioning democracy.</p></blockquote><p>It's important to get this framing right:<b> Elon is explicitly trying to buy Twitter because he believes he can unlock more "free speech" on the platform.</b></p><p>He isn't, for example,&nbsp;trying to make Twitter more profitable or increase revenue. This is likely one of the reasons he declined a board seat: as a board member, he'd have a fiduciary duty to increase the value of Twitter for its shareholders.</p><h2>Twitter, Elon, and free speech</h2><p>There are no scientifically observable "universal principles of free speech." Rather, "free speech" is a social construct, encoded into law by different&nbsp;jurisdictions. As a result, free speech laws look different in <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freedom_of_expression_in_Canada">Canada</a>, the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freedom_of_speech_in_the_United_States">United States</a>, the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freedom_of_speech_by_country#Europe">European Union</a>, <a href="https://www.amnesty.org/en/latest/campaigns/2018/09/egypt-freedom-of-expression/">Egypt</a>,&nbsp;<a href="https://www.erudit.org/fr/revues/mlj/2012-v57-n4-mlj0351/1013032ar/">Israel</a>, <a href="https://hrw.org/news/2022/01/13/singapore-tightening-screws-speech#">Singapore</a>, etc...</p><p>Currently, as a private-sector company in the United States, Twitter has the right to moderate content and remove users:<br></p><blockquote><p>The First Amendment of the US Constitution limits the government—not private entities—from restricting free expression. This is why companies like Facebook and Twitter can moderate content—and also why they could suspend then-President Trump’s accounts during his last weeks in office. (<a href="https://daily.jstor.org/is-there-a-first-amendment-right-to-tweet/">Ref</a>)</p></blockquote><p>In fact, it was a Republican president who made this rule explicit:<br></p><blockquote><p>Only after President Richard Nixon appointed four pro-business conservative justices did the Supreme Court reject this view of the First Amendment, and insist that private corporations have no constitutional obligation to grant access to their property to speakers they dislike, no matter how powerful those corporations might be. (<a href="https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2021/01/first-amendment-regulation/617827/">Ref</a>)</p></blockquote><p>So when Elon says he wants "[to make Twitter] adhere to free speech principles," he's really saying: "I want to make Twitter adhere to my personal beliefs about free speech." If he were to become the owner of Twitter, the company would still be governed by the US Constitution.</p><p>But his claim that he will enable "more free speech" on Twitter is a misnomer. In the USA, you already have the legal principle of free speech, and Twitter is acting within those boundaries.<br></p><h2>Does Elon Musk understand how content moderation works?</h2><p>Prof. Kate Klonick’s paper,&nbsp;<a rel="noreferrer noopener" href="https://harvardlawreview.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/1598-1670_Online.pdf" target="_blank">The New Governors</a>, gives us a sense of the history of free speech and online platforms. She summarizes the current state this way:</p><blockquote><p>Platforms have created a
      voluntary system of self-regulation because they are economically motivated to create a hospitable environment for their users in order to incentivize engagement. This self-regulation involves both reflecting
      the norms of their users around speech as well as keeping up as much
      speech as possible. Online platforms also self-regulate for reasons of
      social and corporate responsibility, which in turn reflect free speech
      norms. These motivations reflect both the Good Samaritan incentives
      and collateral censorship concerns.</p></blockquote><p>Klonick also shows this isn't a new issue: tech companies have been wrestling with free speech issues as early as 1991, <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cubby,_Inc._v._CompuServe_Inc.">with Cubby, Inc. v. CompuServe Inc</a>.</p><p>Her paper also reveals how complicated it is to apply free speech principles on a global platform:</p><blockquote><p>Wong, Hoffman, and Willner all described being acutely aware of their
      predisposition to American democratic culture, which put a large emphasis on free speech and American cultural norms. Simultaneously,
      there were complicated implications in trying to implement those
      American democratic cultural norms within a global company.</p></blockquote><p>Again, free speech laws differ from country to country. So which conception of free speech should a global platform, like Twitter, impose on its users? There's no easy answer.</p><p>In his TED interview, Musk says:</p><blockquote><p>One of the things I believe Twitter should do is open source the algorithm. Anytime they make any changes to people’s tweets — if they’re emphasized or de-emphasized — that should be made apparent so that anyone can see that action has been taken.</p></blockquote><p><em><br></em></p><p>In summary:</p><ul><li>Elon has the right to buy Twitter (in the same way that other billionaires can buy media properties).&nbsp;</li><li>If he does buy it, he will be allowed to enforce his personal concept of what "free speech" on Twitter should look like.</li><li>But that will not be a win for "free speech" (in its actual meaning): it will be a win for folks who see the world the way Elon does. That's an entirely different thing.</li></ul><p>Anyone truly concerned about how free speech laws are currently being applied in the US could petition the government to change the laws. For example, in the EU, free speech legislation is applied differently:<br></p><blockquote><p>The US approach is to keep the government out of it as much as possible. The EU approach is to ask for government enforcement. [The EU's proposed legislation], the DSA, also allows users to challenge takedown decisions and encourages transparency about content moderation decisions. European governments would not only tell companies what they must remove, but also what they must not remove. (<a href="https://daily.jstor.org/is-there-a-first-amendment-right-to-tweet/">Ref</a>)</p></blockquote>
seo:
  description: 'Elon is explicitly trying to buy Twitter because he believes he can unlock more "free speech" on the platform.'
  image: /assets/elon-musk-free-speech.png
id: 6d70ff55-335f-4a18-bb7b-794a883eed95
