title: 'Should my SaaS try to get enterprise customers?'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Ever since we started&nbsp;<a href="https://transistor.fm/?via=justin" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Transistor</a>, we''ve had interest from larger, enterprise companies. (Especially for our&nbsp;<a href="https://transistor.fm/private-podcast/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">private podcasting</a>&nbsp;feature).</p><p>But they don''t want to look at&nbsp;<a href="https://transistor.fm/pricing/?via=justin" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">our pricing</a>, and just sign up with a credit card. Inevitably, they''ll want to&nbsp;<strong>book a call</strong>. 😱</p><p>Even when we try to address their questions over live chat, show them demo videos, and send them our FAQs, many of these companies really want to book a Zoom call with me.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/michele-hansen-enterprise.png
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>So, for the past few years, I''ve been doing these demo calls with qualified leads. It''s been an experiment!</p><h2>Is it worth doing enterprise sales calls? Let''s do the math.</h2><p>I just went through my calendar and counted every demo call I''ve done since Jan 1st. So far this year,&nbsp;<strong>I''ve done demo calls for 26 companies</strong>.</p><p>We really tried to pre-qualify these folks beforehand. These aren''t small SMBs; most them were big brands you would recognize.</p><p><strong>Of those 26 demos, 50% became customers.</strong></p><p>First, some background.&nbsp;<a href="https://transistor.fm/?via=justin" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Transistor.fm</a>&nbsp;provides podcast hosting and analytics. In the podcasting industry, most customers are prosumer or SMB. Our most popular plan is $19/month.</p><p>So back to the sales calls.</p><p>Since January:</p><ul><li>I did 26 personal demos for larger enterprises.</li><li>Those calls took me ~1 hour each, so my time investment was 26 hours.</li><li>50% became customers.</li><li>The biggest account was $1,990 / year. On average, each of these new customers pay $730 / year.</li></ul><p>Overall, those 26 sales increased ARR by ~$10,000. Is that worth it? If doubled-down could we make more money from enterprise customers?</p><h2>Is our SaaS a good fit for enterprise customers?</h2><p>Every market is different.</p><p>For example, if you look at&nbsp;<a href="https://convertkit.baremetrics.com/stats/new-subscriptions" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">ConvertKit''s numbers</a>&nbsp;(which are public), most of their customers sign up on their $29 plan:</p><p><br></p>'
id: f788e898-7319-4b1c-8411-9638338aa950
