title: 'How many trials should I be getting for my SaaS?'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>One misconception I see from new SaaS founders: they don''t realize how many trials they''ll need to succeed.</p><p>Many of us got our business start in consulting. When you''re selling your time, you can only handle 1-2 contracts at a time, so getting a handful of leads every month is fine.</p><p>But the fundamentals of SaaS are different: you can''t dedicate significant resources to nurturing just a few leads a month.</p><p><strong>SaaS is more akin to selling cups of coffee than selling heavy-duty machinery.</strong> You want to see a lineup of people queuing up for your product every day (like at a coffee shop). Otherwise, you''re selling enterprise software (which is fine; just a different model).</p><p>What you''re looking for is a hungry market that is actively pursuing what you have to sell.</p><p>This means that, once you''ve found the right distribution channels, you should be seeing hundreds (or thousands) of trials every month.</p><p>The risk, for new SaaS entrepreneurs, is committing to an idea that doesn''t have sufficient demand, and then trying to turn a small wave into a big wave.</p><blockquote><p>"As someone who just shut down a SaaS that targeted SMBs, this is a fantastic and accurate thread. You can trick yourself into thinking you’re doing ok with a few trials per month, but you’re actually floundering." – <a href="https://twitter.com/polluterofminds/status/1289326870664753152">Justin Hunter</a></p></blockquote><p>Now, I''m not saying you should be getting hundreds of trials right after you launch. Almost every app gradually ramps up over time. But eventually, you want to see a good number of trials. </p><p>Here''s how it looked, in the beginning, for <a href="https://transistor.fm/?via=justin">Transistor.fm</a>:</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/how-many-saas-trials-should-you-get.png
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: '<ul><li><b>In early access</b>, we had a waiting list of people that wanted to try Transistor out. We would drip out invites as we felt we could accommodate them.</li><li><b>We launched on August 2, 2018</b>, and got an influx of signups. Part of this was pent-up demand (folks on our waiting list who had wanted to sign up but hadn''t had the chance), and the&nbsp;</li></ul><p>Garnering from my own experience, and other bootstrapped founders I''ve spoken with, hitting 200-500 trials per month is where the business feels like it''s working. For Jon and me, this is when we went full-time.</p><p>Again: the number of trials you''ll need depends on your price point, whether you accept credit card upfront, your churn, conversion rate, CAC, etc.</p><p>Having a credit card upfront is helpful at the beginning because it makes your trials more meaningful. If people sign up with their credit card, it shows that there''s demand. They <i>want </i>what you have to sell (they''re not just kicking tires).</p><p>In the past, I''ve used these conversion benchmarks (which I garnered from Rob Walling and Patio11 over the years):</p><ul><li><b>Visitor to trial:</b> 0.75% - 1%</li><li><b>Trial to paid:</b> 40% - 60%</li></ul><p>(This is for credit card upfront)</p><p><br></p><blockquote><p>"Adding on: getting the distribution model right so you''re doing very little one-to-one selling and keeping pricing complexity to a bare minimum are keys. If you need multiple calls to close a $99 MRR deal you''re in trouble." – <a href="https://twitter.com/davidcolbyatx/status/1289330785103667200">David Colby</a></p></blockquote><p><br></p>'
id: 1e6939db-c388-4834-ae0a-d5d1a100c193
