title: 'Do you need marketing tracking and automation?'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>I used to invest heavily in marketing automation, tracking, attribution, configuring funnels, and retargeting. But after 13 years of doing marketing for SaaS companies... I''m convinced that 90% of it is unnecessary.</p><p>The biggest reason you don''t need a complex marketing stack?</p><p><strong>What drives demand isn''t a bunch of funnels or retargeting campaigns...</strong></p><p>What&nbsp;<strong>really&nbsp;</strong>drives demand is a bunch of&nbsp;<strong>customers who actively want what you''re selling</strong>.</p><p>The purpose of marketing is to connect buyers (who want a product like yours) with your product.</p><p>From what I''ve seen, there''s a certain type of product that requires MORE marketing; more convincing, more funnels, more drip campaigns, more manipulation. These aren''t the type of products you should be building.</p><p>For indie entrepreneurs, the best products to build&nbsp;<strong>are the products people already want to buy</strong>. It shouldn''t take a bunch of effort to convince them.</p><h2>Do we really need marketing tracking?</h2><p>Marketing attribution tools require a ton of investment to get right.</p><p>(Most often, they''re incorrectly configured)</p><blockquote><p>"Growth programs are really easy to screw up. Multiple times in my career, I’ve had to throw out 3–6 months worth of tests." – Lars Lofgren</p></blockquote><p>I wouldn’t be surprised if&nbsp;<em>most</em>&nbsp;company’s analytics and funnels are incorrectly configured.</p><p>Companies are making big decisions based on faulty data. (It’s happened to me multiple times)</p><p>Also, many of the metrics we’re getting from Google, FB, etc&nbsp;<a href="https://fortune.com/2019/10/07/facebook-lawsuit-settlement-inflated-video-data-advertisers/#:~:text=Facebook%20has%20agreed%20to%20pay,watched%20video%20on%20the%20platform.&amp;text=While%20it%20disputes%20the%20lawsuit,lasted%20longer%20than%20three%20seconds." target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">are inflated</a>.</p><p>In private, most marketing professionals will admit that much of the data we collect is "dirty." (Not accurate) The repercussions of making decisions based on faulty data are big!</p>'
id: 7c277f61-2889-4b08-8bab-7ad02b33ce0d
