title: 'Business is like surfing'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Now, maybe more than ever, there are lots of people who aspire to build a software business.<br></p><blockquote><p>"Building a profitable remote SaaS business is the new American Dream." – Tyler Tringas</p></blockquote><p>This desire is being motivated by a number of societal factors: the middle-class is <a href="https://www.theguardian.com/cities/2017/may/17/america-geography-wealth-shrinking-urban-middle-class-visualised">shrinking</a>, commutes are getting <a href="https://www.npr.org/2018/09/20/650061560/stuck-in-traffic-youre-not-alone-new-data-show-american-commute-times-are-longer">longer</a>, and real wages <a href="https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2019/04/50-years-of-us-wages-in-one-chart/">haven''t improved</a> in decades.</p><p>Individually, we''re driven by different things, but I''m sure many can resonate with Phil Duffy here:</p><blockquote><p>"Ultimately, my purpose in life is to work on projects I enjoy and to afford time with my family."</p></blockquote><p>We want a good life, and building a startup seems like the way to get it.</p><p>So there are more folks trying to build and launch products, which means there are a lot more people asking the question:&nbsp;</p><p><b>"How do I do this? How do I build a profitable business?"</b></p><p>Unlike the old American dream (go to college, get a good job, buy a house) this new aspiration is a lot harder to quantify.</p><p>Asking "how do I build a good business" is a lot more like asking "how do I become a good surfer?"</p><h2>Business (and surfing) for beginners</h2><p>Surfing is frustrating for beginners; largely because your first steps don''t look like surfing.</p><p>You spend a lot of time out of the water, getting familiar with the board, practising manoeuvres, learning to paddle, and observing waves.</p><p>Likewise, the first steps to launching a business won''t be "build a software product." Instead, you''ll start by working on your fundamentals.</p><p>If you''re learning something new, there''s always a lot of uncertainty at the beginning. One way to visualize this is with a hill chart (courtesy of <a href="https://3.basecamp-help.com/article/412-hill-charts">Basecamp</a>):</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/hill-chart-example.gif
    size: md
    brutalized: false
    clickable_image_url: 'https://3.basecamp-help.com/article/412-hill-charts'
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>The same is true in business!&nbsp;</p><p>Using the same hill chart model, we could illustrate the process of building a business like this:</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/business-is-surfing-hill-chart-bw.png
    size: xl
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p><b>The "Developing Fundamentals" stage:</b></p><ul><li>Gaining relevant skills</li><li>Making connections</li><li>Understanding a market or industry</li><li>Observing demand</li></ul><p><b>The "Making it Happen" stage:&nbsp;</b></p><ul><li>Starting to build the product</li><li>Doing pre-sales</li><li>Launching a beta</li><li>Evaluating traction</li><li>Doing a public launch</li><li>Finding good marketing channels</li></ul><p>Entrepreneurship, and surfing, are both inherently difficult (not everyone who hops on a surfboard becomes a good surfer!). But they''re exceptionally harder if you try to jump ahead, without developing some fundamentals first.</p>'
  -
    type: sidebar
    text: '**Sidenote:** even experienced entrepreneurs often need to go back to the "learn to surf" phase when they jump into a new industry or product category..'
  -
    type: text
    text: '<h2>What does developing fundamentals look like?&nbsp;</h2><p>For Nathan Barry (founder of <a href="https://convertkit.com?lmref=erdpyA">ConvertKit</a>), it meant teaching himself web design at age 16, working for a startup when he turned 19, launching iOS apps shortly after that, and then (at 22) building an audience (and selling online courses). He launched ConvertKit when he was 23 years old.</p><p>Today, ConvertKit is doing over <a href="https://convertkit.baremetrics.com/">$20 million</a> a year in revenue. Some folks wonder: "How can someone born in 1990 have such a successful company?" There are certainly lots of factors, but one thing is clear: Nathan developed some strong fundamentals early on.</p>'
  -
    type: sidebar
    text: '**My story is different:** I didn''t start working in the tech industry until I was 28 years old. But, I started podcasting, blogging and building an audience.  Four years later, I launched my first product.  [Transistor](https://transistor.fm/?via=justin), the podcast hosting platform I run with Jon Buda, didn''t happen until we were both in our late 30s.'
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Don''t skip the developmental stage! The skills you learn, the people you meet, the audience you build, the industry knowledge you gain, and the problems you observe; these factors will influence your chances for success.</p><h3>Spend some time paddling</h3><p>Contrary to popular perception, surfers spend most of their time paddling. The paddling stage is important because it gives us a feel for the water, and how it moves. You learn to read the waves by being in the water.</p><p>Likewise, you''ll spend a lot of time (before you start your business) just paddling. For most of us, this will be the time we spend working in a specific industry, gaining skills as an employee, or working with a variety of clients as a consultant. Don''t rush past this stage too fast! Most of my entrepreneurial friends discovered their business idea while working for someone else.</p><p>For example, my friend Francois was doing web development consulting for Shopify stores. He noticed that many of his clients started requesting the same type of image gallery. So, instead of building it custom for everyone, he built it as a SaaS.</p><h2>Picking the right wave (choosing your market)</h2><p><b>If business was surfing, the market would be the wave.</b> The market you choose will shape every aspect of your business:&nbsp;</p><ul><li>what product will you build?</li><li>who wants this now?</li><li>how much will they pay?</li><li>how will you position your product for this audience?</li><li>how will you reach them?</li><li>how much does it&nbsp;</li></ul><p>And, ultimately, the economic potential for your product is determined by the size, momentum, and characteristics of your market.</p><p>The product you build is like the surfboard: it''s important, but only if you’re able to catch a good wave.</p><p>The way you manoeuvre your board (positioning) is also&nbsp;crucial. But, positioning won''t help you if there''s no surge.</p>'
  -
    type: html_embed
    embed_code: '<style>.embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; -webkit-filter: grayscale(100%); filter: grayscale(100%); } .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }</style><div class=''embed-container''><iframe src=''https://www.youtube.com/embed/EZYAaL3C55A?rel=0'' frameborder=''0'' allowfullscreen></iframe></div>'
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>In business education, we spend a lot of time talking about building the right product, about creating things that people want, about positioning, sales and marketing. These things are important, but only if you’ve identified a good opportunity.</p><p>You don’t want to ride a wave that’s too big, that’s way beyond your ability. But more than anything, you don’t want to ride a wave that’s too small. And, you definitely don’t want to be left sitting on your board in flat water.<br></p>'
  -
    type: sidebar
    text: '**Sidenote:** taking venture capital is the equivalent of gunning for a tsunami wave, by getting pulled in by a Seadoo.'
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <h3>What makes a good market?</h3><p>Here are the factors you'll want to consider when evaluating market demand:</p><ol><li><b>Current market value</b> =
      number of potential customers
      x
      how much they spend 
      x
      the frequency at which they buy&nbsp;</li><li><b>Growth rate</b> =
      current market value
      x
      growth rate (increase in # of customers, spending, frequency)</li><li><b>Market reach</b> = can you reach a reasonable number of potential customers? How affordable, and reliable, are the marketing channels?</li><li><b>Competition </b>= what competitors are you going up against? (How many people are gunning for the same wave?) Do you think you can compete at their level?</li></ol><p>Just like a surfer, you're looking for rising tides. And you're not just sizing up these waves based on how they look, but also if <b>you think you're the right person to ride them</b>. Your personal characteristics matter: what skills, experiences, and connections do you bring to the table?</p><p><br></p>
seo:
  image: /assets/business-is-like-surfing.png
id: 367c3289-bc48-4426-82b3-f1b19b25de34
