title: 'Same effort, but better results'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Back in 2001, Bob and Jane each picked a stock and invested $1,000.</p><p>Bob picked IBM. Jane picked Apple.</p><p>Bob''s $1,000 investment in IBM turned into $2,643.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/ibm-stock-performance.png-1651877744.png
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Jane''s $1,000 investment in Apple turned into $903,471.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/apple-stock-performance.png
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p><strong>This same "effort/reward effect" is present when entrepreneurs start businesses: two founders can apply the same effort, but one can get wildly better results</strong></p><p>To me, this is fascinating: two people can invest the same amount of time, money, and resources, but one person can get a 10x, 100x, or 1000x better outcome.</p><p>Some of this can be explained by "luck," but this multiplication effect can also be achieved by making better bets.</p><p>Warren Buffett''s investment strategy relied on making better bets. As Bill Gates explained in <a href="https://hbr.org/1996/01/what-i-learned-from-warren-buffett">HBR</a>:</p><blockquote><p>"Warren says that in your lifetime you should swing at only a couple dozen pitches, and he advises doing careful homework so that the few swings you do take are hits."</p></blockquote><p>How does this apply to indie entrepreneurs?</p><p>We have to get better at making bets. We can''t, as Buffett says, "swing at every pitch."</p><p>To make better bets, we really need to do our research (this could include doing smaller experiments). But we''re looking for evidence that the market it "pulling" for a particular product or solution.</p><p>It also means we have to be patient: founders shouldn''t go after every opportunity (we shouldn''t swing at every pitch that comes our way).</p><p>Too often we equate "more effort = more success." But in business, it''s <strong>market demand </strong>that multiplies our efforts. You''ll put $100 worth of effort in, and get $1,000 out.</p><p>This doesn''t mean we''ll hit every pitch that comes our way, but if you''re selective, you''ll know when you''ve hit a home run.</p><p>(If you liked this post, please share it on Twitter)</p><p>Cheers,<br>Justin Jackson<br><a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p><p>PS – here''s one way business <em>isn''t</em> like baseball: you don''t need to stay committed to a "swing" you''ve already taken. Part of making better bets is being able to <a href="https://justinjackson.ca/moving-on">move on from a bad bet</a>.</p>'
  -
    type: newsletter
id: eef0f673-f5c2-442b-a6e8-724c8149b947
