title: 'Podcasting is better with RSS'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>When Apple added podcasts to iTunes in <a href="https://daringfireball.net/2005/07/podcast_pocket">2005</a>, Steve Jobs deliberately <a href="https://blog.castopod.org/the-podfather-2-0-the-pioneers-strike-back/">sought out RSS</a> as the underlying technology. Rather than eschewing the open standard, Apple innovated on top of RSS by adding new tags for cover art, podcast categories, and descriptions. In doing so, they laid the foundation for the entire podcast ecosystem to thrive.</p><p>"[Apple created a platform that was] decentralized, free, fair, open, and uncontrollable by any single entity,"&nbsp;Marco Arment&nbsp;<a href="https://marco.org/2016/05/07/apple-role-in-podcasting">wrote in 2016</a>, "each podcast can be hosted anywhere and is completely owned and controlled by its producer." Marco also points out that, for many years, Apple had the biggest podcast directory: "Being listed there is essential for podcasts to be easily found when searching in most apps."</p><p>In the context of 2023, it seems unlikely that a tech giant would make the same decision as Apple did back in 2005. Modern VCs and executives prefer to invest in centralized platforms (like YouTube), where they can own both the distribution and monetization. If you mention a protocol like RSS to tech execs today, you''ll get pushback: "An open protocol that lets anyone freely create, manage, and distribute audio content? Where''s the promise of exponential returns in that?"</p><h2>The Proprietary Profit Motive</h2><p>This desire for exponential returns has incentivized the creation of proprietary platforms like YouTube, TikTok, Facebook, Twitter, Spotify, and Netflix. Now, these behemoths have a major influence over what we consume online.</p><p>They''ve been able to accomplish this by following a particular playbook:</p><ol><li>Entice content creators with the promise of increased distribution ("You''ll reach a bigger audience!").</li><li>This fresh content attracts users and encourages them to show up every day to consume more media.</li><li>The consumption patterns of consumers feed the algorithm and make the platform more addictive.</li><li>The platforms monetize this engagement through ads and subscriptions.</li><li>As the amount of content on a platform increases, creators must work harder to reach their audience.</li></ol><p>A key insight in all of this is that on a centralized platform, individual creators are disposable. This is especially true with algorithmic feeds like TikTok: the algorithm doesn''t care <i>whose</i>&nbsp;video it shows; it just optimizes for whichever content keeps the user on the platform the longest.</p><p>A centralized platform''s ultimate goal isn''t what''s best for creators or consumers: it''s to capture as much attention as possible, monetize it, and be the primary beneficiaries of any upside.&nbsp;</p><p>We''ve seen this scenario play out multiple times now with social media platforms, and I''m worried that it''s now threatening the podcast ecosystem.</p><h3>Facebook Pages: A Cautionary Tale</h3><p>You can see the contrast between open protocols and proprietary platforms in the history of Facebook Pages.&nbsp;</p><p>Initially, Facebook enticed businesses to create a Facebook Page with the promise of "reaching more customers." Small businesses are always looking for affordable ways to reach customers, so many created Pages and promoted them to their respective audiences. However, as soon as Facebook had a critical mass of businesses on its platform, it throttled the organic reach of Pages. To reach their audience, businesses now had to pay for "boosts."</p><p>Platforms like Medium, Twitter, and Instagram have followed this same strategy, leveraging the content of creators to build their platforms, only to restrict access once they reach scale. This bait-and-switch leaves creators and small businesses stuck in a system where they have to pay more (or work harder) for their content to have any visibility.</p><h2><strong>Championing Open Protocols</strong></h2><p>The beauty of open protocols like RSS, SMTP, and HTTP is they resist control from any single entity.&nbsp;</p><p>While corporations can build email services (like AOL, Yahoo Mail, Hotmail, Gmail, and Hey), they can''t monopolize the entire ecosystem. As a result, we''re not obligated to pay ''postage fees'' to Microsoft or Google when we send an email. Instead, they must be good citizens and stewards of the ecosystem. It''s in Microsoft''s best interests to ensure that Outlook emails are still accepted by Gmail''s mail servers (and vice versa).</p><p>Open standards also foster a healthier digital ecosystem for small businesses and indie developers. For example, a programmer could build an email client that leverages SMTP or POP3 and earn a living without paying licensing fees to a larger entity. Recently, we''ve seen how <a href="https://twitter.com/maximehugodupre/status/1644688328480923650">indie devs are adversely affected</a> when a large platform (like Twitter) charges exorbitant rates for API access. But developers building on standard protocols don''t have this risk.</p><p>Finally, open protocols don''t game human attention like centralized algorithmic feeds do. Protocols like RSS and SMTP don''t have an ulterior motive to "maximize engagement" or "increase time on the platform."</p><h2>Podcasting: the RSS Advantage</h2><p>This brings me to RSS and its role in podcasting. Thanks to RSS, the podcasting world has developed into a vibrant ecosystem, offering podcasters more freedom:</p><ol><li>The freedom to record and encode MP3s the way they''d like.<br></li><li>The freedom to choose where their podcast is hosted (or even host their own RSS feeds).</li><li>Freedom of speech and expression (even when removed from an index, subscribers can still access an RSS feed directly).</li><li>The freedom to decide which podcast directories and listening apps they submit to for distribution.</li><li>The freedom to <a href="https://transistor.fm/make-money-podcasting/">monetize their podcasts</a> as they see fit.</li></ol><p>These freedoms are all made possible because RSS is an open standard, impervious to control by any single entity.<br></p><p>In podcasting, distribution is decentralized, with Apple Podcasts, Spotify, Google Podcasts, Amazon, Podcast Index, Listen Notes, and others keeping each other in check. This prevents any one entity from dominating the ecosystem and charging podcasters to "boost" content to their listeners.</p><p>Because of RSS, listeners also get more freedom:</p><ol><li>They can choose which app they use to listen to podcasts (Overcast, Podcast Addict, Apple Podcasts, Spotify).</li><li>Many independent podcast apps shield listeners from intrusive tracking and ad-targeting.</li><li>They can support their favorite podcasts through various means: supporting sponsors, becoming a patron, buying merch, or paying for a private podcast feed.</li><li>They can use new features added to RSS (like transcripts) <i>and </i>still listen to their favorite shows by switching to a podcast player that supports them.&nbsp;</li></ol><h2>Protecting the Open Podcast Ecosystem&nbsp;</h2><p>Despite the merits of open standards, RSS in podcasting has its critics.</p><p>In his&nbsp;<a href="https://mignano.medium.com/the-standards-innovation-paradox-e14cab521391">essay</a>, Michael Mignano, the founder of Anchor (now acquired by Spotify), argues that podcasting needs a proprietary (closed) system. In a subsequent <a href="https://weekly.podnews.net/1538779/8027993">interview on Podland</a>, he describes what he calls "The Standards/Innovation Paradox:"</p><blockquote><p>"The paradox is: when a standard [like RSS] breaks through and gains massive adoption it then becomes very, very hard to change. And the market that it effectively powers stagnates in terms of innovation, because nobody can come to an agreement about what the changes to the standards should be at scale."</p></blockquote><p>I want to respond to some of Mignano''s ideas here. (To be clear, my goal is to critique the ideas in his essay; these aren''t judgments on Mignano as a person).</p><h3>The Reliability of Open Standards Enables Innovation</h3><p>Mignano argues that without centralized control, innovation will stagnate because open standards are "very, very hard to change." I think it''s possible to evolve open standards, but I also want to point out that&nbsp;<b>their stability enables innovation.</b>&nbsp;</p><p>For example, think about all the innovations built on top of HTTP, TCP/IP, and WebRTC:</p><ol><li><strong>HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol)</strong>: HTTP enables communication between web clients and servers. Without this foundational standard, none of the modern web-based applications we use daily would be possible: Netflix, Amazon, Twitter, and Instagram.</li><li><strong>TCP/IP (Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol)</strong>: This is the fundamental way devices communicate and transfer data on the Internet. It has enabled technologies like VoIP (Voice over IP) services such as Zoom, livestreaming on YouTube, and online gaming.</li><li><strong>WebRTC (Web Real-Time Communication)</strong>: This open-source project enables developers to add real-time communication capabilities (like video and voice) to their applications. It''s foundational for products like Discord, Google Voice, and Twitter Spaces.</li></ol><p>Instead of inventing new protocols, developers have been able to innovate on top of them and have benefitted from their reliability and wide distribution. In many cases, the benefits of using an existing standard outweigh the opportunity cost of creating something new.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/standards_2x.png
    size: xl
    brutalized: false
    clickable_image_url: 'https://xkcd.com/927'
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Now, what about innovation?</p><p>RSS is both stable and extendible. The basic structure of a podcast feed is universally supported by all the listening apps (Apple Podcasts, Spotify, Google Podcasts,&nbsp;<a href="https://podcastaddict.com/">Podcast Addict</a>, <a href="https://overcast.fm/">Overcast</a>, <a href="https://pocketcasts.com/">Pocket Casts)</a>. However, as the folks from <a href="https://github.com/Podcastindex-org/podcast-namespace">Podcasting 2.0</a> have shown, RSS is also a good foundation for innovation with the addition of the new <code>&lt;podcast&gt;</code> namespace. Already they''ve added new features to RSS like:</p><ul><li>Transcripts</li><li>Chapters</li><li>Funding</li><li>Video</li></ul><p>And through advocacy groups like <a href="https://podstandards.org/">Podcast Standards</a>, the hope is that more podcast apps will adopt these features.</p><h3>Open Standards Generate Opportunities for Small Companies</h3><p>Another plus for open standards? They enable small businesses to thrive.</p><p>Many of the indie success stories of the past decade were built on top of open standards:</p><ul><li><a href="https://convertkit.com/?lmref=erdpyA">ConvertKit</a>&nbsp;is a self-funded email newsletter startup built on SMTP.</li><li><a href="https://hey.com/">Hey</a>, a new email app from 37signals that competes with larger products from Google like Gmail.</li><li><a href="https://transistor.fm/?via=justin">Transistor</a> (the company I co-founded) hosts podcasts, generates feeds, and distributes audio to listeners.</li></ul><p>As many <a href="https://commongoodcap.com/smes-are-the-lifeblood-of-our-economy/">have noted</a>, small businesses are the lifeblood of a thriving economy. If open protocols enable more independent entrepreneurs to start new businesses and compete with incumbents, that''s a&nbsp;<i>good</i>&nbsp;thing.</p><p>But&nbsp;<a href="https://mignano.medium.com/the-standards-innovation-paradox-e14cab521391">in his essay</a>, Michael Mignano says:</p><blockquote><p>Despite the benefit of standards-based products being able to reach an audience faster, the tradeoff is that a lower barrier to entry means <i>more products get created in a category, causing market fragmentation</i> and ultimately, a slow pace of innovation.</p></blockquote><p>In a capitalist economy, how can "more products getting created in a category" be painted as a <i>bad thing?</i></p><p>Here, he uses a loaded term, "market fragmentation," to imply that "more products being in a category" is a negative. But the truth is the opposite: having multiple products in a category is healthy! "Competition is always a good thing," author Nancy Pearcy said, "it forces us to do our best. A monopoly renders people complacent and satisfied with mediocrity."</p><p>In podcasting, the result of "market fragmentation" is a diverse group of participants, with no single product or platform exerting monopolistic control.&nbsp;<br></p><p>This&nbsp;points to another benefit of open standards: resistance to monopolies. Although large companies may dominate certain areas (like Gmail for email and Apple Podcasts for podcast listening), the open nature of the protocols still allows smaller companies to compete in meaningful ways (Hey for email, Overcast for podcast listening).</p><p>I''d also argue that any ''innovation'' built inside a centralized, proprietary platform isn''t true innovation. Why? Because when big platforms innovate, they''ll often hoard the benefits and learning&nbsp;inside the company. Compare that with open protocols,&nbsp;where benefits are shared across a wide community of individuals and organizations. Most of the upside with proprietary systems goes to big tech companies and their shareholders.</p><h2>True Innovation in Podcasting</h2><p>The beauty of RSS lies in its extensibility, as demonstrated by Apple when it added&nbsp;<code>&lt;itunes&gt;</code>&nbsp;tags, enabling podcast cover art, chapters, and more. Today, Google, Apple, and Spotify have all added their tags to the RSS namespace. The Podcasting 2.0 group is moving fast, adding new&nbsp;<code>&lt;podcast&gt;</code>&nbsp;tags, including the ability to add transcripts.</p><p>There''s room for innovation on top of RSS.</p><p>This is the goal of the new <a href="https://podstandards.org/">Podcast Standards</a> organization: to petition hosting platforms and listening apps to adopt a standard set of new podcasting tags and features. It''s the podcast equivalent of the <a href="https://www.webstandards.org/">Web Standards Project</a>, which successfully rallied different companies to support open standards set by the W3C.</p><p>Multiple podcast hosting platforms and listening apps have already added new features introduced by the <a href="https://github.com/Podcastindex-org/podcast-namespace">Podcasting 2.0</a> project. These include:</p><p>They''re innovating on top of RSS with support for chapters, funding, people profiles, transcripts, and more.</p><h2>Podcasting is Better When it''s Open</h2><p><br></p>'
id: 3a76e2ef-311e-4dfb-9237-4987d14a20db
