title: 'Your idea matters'
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>John Doerr, a venture capitalist, is credited with saying:&nbsp;</p><p><i>"Ideas are easy. Execution is everything."</i></p><p>I disagree.</p><p><b>If ideas are so easy, why are most business ideas so bad?&nbsp;</b></p><h2>What is a "business idea?"</h2><p>Business ideas are <b>observations</b> paired with <b>hunches</b>.</p><p><b>Observation</b>: <i>"This is what people are doing. This is what people want. This is where the market is headed."</i></p><p><b>Hunch: </b><i>"Here''s a way we could help people to get the result they want (and do it better than what''s currently available)."</i></p><p>The results of your execution hinge on the strength of your original idea. How clear was your initial observation? How correct was your hunch?</p><h2>Why your idea matters</h2><p>The market you choose, and the idea that you focus on, are the most important business decisions you’ll make. They determine your trajectory.&nbsp;</p><p>Yes, how you execute is a part of that, but your ceiling for success is set by the idea itself.</p>'
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/the-value-of-a-good-idea.png
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: |
      <p><br></p><p>When an author says: "I have an idea for my next book," the success of that book largely depends on the concept they've chosen.
      
      The same is true in business.</p><p>The risk with overemphasizing "execution" is it deludes people into thinking that if they work hard enough, they can make any idea successful. It's just not true.&nbsp;</p><p>If you don't believe me, browse old listings on Product Hunt. 
      
      You'll see page after page of beautifully executed products that never achieved meaningful traction.
      
      There have been thousands of ideas posted; most failed.&nbsp;</p><p>There are tons of tech people who are skilled at building software but struggle to build good software businesses.
      
      The difference is in the quality of their ideas.</p><p>We often compare ideas to seeds. But a bad seed can't grow into a plant; only a good seed can.&nbsp;
      </p><p>Got a bad idea? Don't spend lots of time fertilizing it, watering it, and trying to get it to grow. No! Throw it away.
      
      Focus on cultivating good ideas and helping them grow.&nbsp;</p><h2>How to find good business ideas</h2><p>I know talented makers who had to hunt for years before they found a good idea.&nbsp;</p><p>Identifying a good business opportunity is often the culmination of:</p><ul><li>the experiences you've had,</li><li>the markets you've observed,</li><li>the customers you've listened to,</li><li>the experiments you've run.&nbsp;</li></ul><p>Good ideas are not easy to find. And often, you have to wait for them to appear.&nbsp;</p><p>The problem is, most of us are impatient and want to <i>execute</i> as soon as possible, so we pick the first idea that comes to mind.</p><p>On Twitter, lots of folks told me: "But generating ideas is easy!"</p><p>Yes, coming up with low-quality ideas is easy. But being able to see the shape of a good opportunity is hard. (In the same way that noticing a wave from the beach is easy, but being able to <a href="/surfing">identify a strong swell to surf</a> is difficult).</p><blockquote><p>"It's better to create a product for an audience/industry that you're already a part of because you know it well enough to have good hunches about what people need." – <a href="https://twitter.com/coreywstone">Corey Stone</a></p></blockquote><p>Good business ideas come from making&nbsp;<b>observations</b>&nbsp;about how people act in the real world and then having an <b>intuition </b>for the best way to respond.</p><p>Copying someone else's ideas rarely works. As <a href="https://signalvnoise.com/posts/1561-why-you-shouldnt-copy-us-or-anyone-else">Jason Fried</a> says:</p><blockquote><p>Here’s the problem with copying: Copying skips understanding. Understanding is how you grow. You have to understand why something works or why something is how it is. When you copy it, you miss that.</p></blockquote><p>If you're not generating very many ideas, it's probably because:</p><ul><li>you haven't had enough experience in a given sector,</li><li>you haven't learned to observe the way people behave,</li><li>you haven't <a href="/surfing">honed your instincts</a> for recognizing the "pull" of a market.</li></ul><h2>Putting our ideas into action</h2><p>For many people, validating an idea is a part of the "execution" step. They'll build an MVP, put it out into the market, and measure the response. If the reaction is bad, they'll try to iterate on the original idea (or pivot).</p><p>One worry I have about the "Lean Startup" method is that it still requires significant investment in building an MVP. You don't realize the idea is terrible until you've created something, put it out into the world, and gathered feedback on it.</p><p>Here's the framework I use now, instead:</p><ol><li>I have many ideas (most of them are bad).</li><li>As I evaluate ideas, some are worth exploring.</li><li>I explore the shape of those ideas.</li><li>I choose the idea that has the most potential (and best fits me).</li><li>I research the idea more (usually by finding folks who are already paying for a similar tool or trying to accomplish a similar task).</li><li>I research the market potential more (how many people are actively buying a similar product).</li><li>I decide if it's an idea I want to <a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin/status/1207691055404965888">commit to</a> working on.</li><li>I find the right partners (co-founders, contractors, advisors).</li><li>If everything looks good, I start executing on the idea.</li><li>If, after I start executing, I get the feeling that it's not going well, I pivot or quit.</li></ol><p>This framework is loosely based on the work that Ryan Singer and Basecamp are doing with their <a href="https://basecamp.com/shapeup">Shape Up</a> process. At the beginning of a project, there is lots of uncertainty. It's only after you've answered most of the unknowns that you should start executing. This is best illustrated by their <a href="https://basecamp.com/features/hill-charts">Hill Chart</a> concept:</p>
  -
    type: image
    image: /assets/content/basecamp-hill-chart-for-ideas-execution.png
    size: md
    brutalized: false
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Execution means "to put a concept into action." If you were writing an essay for school, you would want to make sure that the idea you''d chosen was solid. In a brainstorming session, you might generate many ideas; but it''s the strength of the idea you choose that will carry your paper.</p><h2>Work on ideas that matter</h2><p>Don''t rush it.</p><p>Cheers,<br>Justin Jackson<br><a href="https://twitter.com/mijustin">@mijustin</a></p>'
  -
    type: newsletter
seo:
  description: 'Your business'' results hinge on the strength of your original idea. How clear was your initial observation? How correct was your hunch?'
id: 0c7587e9-4ebb-4eb0-8f5b-a72839914dae
